RETIRE SMART
2026

BENEFIT OPTIONS FOR PURDUE RETIREES

RETIRE SMART

Thank you for your dedicated service and your help in making Purdue a great place to
learn and work. We appreciate your efforts and the valuable contributions that you have
made to the continued success of the University. As you begin to make your retirement
plans, we want to do everything possible to assist in your transition to retirement.

WHO QUALIFIES AS AN OFFICIAL RETIREE?
You qualify to be an Official Retiree if you meet the
requirements outlined in any of the categories below.
or staff member who meets
• Athefaculty
following qualifications:
1. Age 55 or older and
2. Employed by Purdue University in a benefitseligible position for 10 or more years
Or
1. Employed by Purdue University in a
benefits-eligible position, and
2. Received income replacement benefits under the
University’s long-term disability program (LTD) until
the age limit at which LTD benefits ended and
3. Was continuously employed with the University for
five years or more prior to qualifying for LTD.
Or

• The surviving spouse and surviving children of a person who:
1. Was an Official Retiree of the University

2. Had been continuously employed by the University
for five or more years immediately prior to death.
Or
1. Was a Purdue employee at the time of his or her death and
2. Was continuously employed by the University
in a benefits-eligible position for five or more
years immediately prior to death.
Additionally, to be considered qualifying under this policy,
surviving spouses and children must meet the eligibility
requirements for benefits under University policy.

2

OFFICIAL RETIREE PRIVILEGES
Purdue University grants a variety of privileges to official retirees. The list below
highlights some of them. For additional information, visit www.purdue.edu/retirees.
Purdue retiree photo identification card.

Purdue discount programs.

Purdue University’s M.D. Steer Audiology

Retirees may obtain the card at the ID Card

Retirees can take advantage of discounts

Clinic housed in Lyles-Porter Hall offers free

Office Stewart Center, Room 194. The card

for a variety of services and items. For

hearing screenings on scheduled days.

will facilitate access to computer services,

more information, call 765-494-7397 or

Screenings are open to adults 18 and older. To

recreational facilities, sports events,

visit www.purdue.edu/cssac/

schedule an appointment, call 765-494-4229.

cultural events, University Libraries, and the

Employee_Discounts.

Purdue discount programs offered by local

The screenings are recommened for anyone

businesses. Surviving spouses also are

Medical plan participation.

who has experienced ringing in ears, exsposure

eligible for an ID card.

Optional participation for retirees/

to loud noise, frequent ear infectionsof difficulty

spouses/eligible dependents.

hearing speech in noisy rooms. Clinical

PURA-sponsored programs.

See pages 4 - 10 for description of the

instructors and graduate students from the

Opportunity to participate in all PURA-

University supported group Health Plans.

clinic will perform the 20-minute screenings.

tours, including PURA’s Annual Spring

Use of the Purdue University Pharmacy.

Use of University email and data

Conference, an educational program

The pharmacy is located in the Robert E.

network remote facilities.

featuring topics and presentations of

Heine Pharmacy Building (RHPH), Room

All official retirees are eligible to use the

current interest to retirees.

118. Licensed pharmacists, graduate

University’s electronic mail services.

sponsored programs, events, trips and

student instructors, and pharmacy
Entertainment and recreational senior

students staff the pharmacy, which

Free flu shots.

rates.

accepts the PURcare prescription drug

Convenient access to Flu shots is provided

Senior (60+ or 62+) rates for some Purdue

plan as well as Purdue drug plans for

annually to Purdue retirees and their

Convocation events and at University golf

retirees under 65. Payment must be made

spouses. Information is available by calling

courses.

at the time of purchase by cash, check, or

HR Customer Service at 765-494-2222.

credit card.
Purdue Today / Purdue News Weekly.

Fee privileges.

Purdue retirees can subscribe to Purdue

Wellness services at the Nursing

Retired faculty and staff and their qualified

Today and Purdue News Weekly. The online

Center for Family Health.

children have the same privileges for Purdue

form for Purdue Today, the university’s

During the year retirees have access

class enrollments as current faculty and staff.

publication for faculty and staff, is available

to one free wellness screening. This

Information about enrolling in classes is available

at here. The e-newsletter publishes Monday

includes a finger stick for a Lipid Profile

through the Office of Admissions, 765-494-

through Thursday. To sign up for Purdue

with glucose and a basic hearing

1776, and information about fees is available

News Weekly, which pulls together the latest

screening if requested. Additional lipid

through the Office of the Bursar, 765-494-

news from Purdue, go here. Purdue News

profiles can be done for a fee. Retirees are

7570. Identify yourself as a Purdue retiree.

Weekly publishes on Fridays. For more

always welcome to come for free blood

information or help with issues related to

pressure checks/screenings. The Nursing

Free tuition is also available for qualifying

subscribing, email purduetoday@purdue.

Center for Family Health is located on the

Indiana residents age 60 and older through the

edu. Purdue University Retirees Association

first floor of Lyles-Porter Hall, which has

Ivy Tech Community College Senior Scholars

will communicate by email and mail about

an attached parking garage. The Nursing

program. For details about taking credit

upcoming events and other news for

Center for Family Health does not accept

courses for letter grades, contact the Ivy

retirees.

medical insurance, Medicare or Medicaid.

Tech Admissions Office at 765‑269‑5200.

For more information call 765-496-0308.
Complimentary parking permit.
Permits for retiree use are available at:
Purdue Parking

Purdue University Libraries. Retirees
have access to the wide-ranging Purdue
University Libraries facilities.

Stewart Center, room G054
https://www.purdue.edu/parking/
For information call 765-494-9497 or email,
parking@purdue.edu

3

PURDUE UNIVERSITY RETIREES ASSOCIATION (PURA)
An official retiree of Purdue University automatically becomes a member of the Purdue University Retirees Association
(PURA). PURA offers many opportunities to participate in continuing education and social programs. It offers help in meeting
the challenges of retirement and in sharing views with others who have similar concerns. And best of all, it offers the advantages of membership with no dues.
The PURA executive board and committees work to improve the state of and opportunities for retirees. Regular attention is
given to medical insurance, financial planning and other quality‑of‑life issues. The association also encourages volunteer
opportunities on campus and in the community and keeps you informed of campus news. The continuing and primary goal of
PURA is to help you enjoy a stimulating, involved, productive and happy retirement. We encourage you to make frequent use
of the PURA website: www.purdue.edu/retirees.

A MESSAGE ABOUT PURCARE AND
ITS ADVANTAGES FROM THE PURDUE
UNIVERSITY RETIREES ASSOCIATION
The future of medical insurance is very much unknown. But no matter
what changes occur, Purdue retirees serving on the Benefits Committee
of PURA will work hard to provide the best supplemental medical/drug
insurance program for Purdue retirees through the PURcare plan.
The PURcare plan offers these advantages for Purdue retirees:
• PURcare has a Purdue staff member assigned full-time
to provide assistance and support for members should
they have insurance problems or questions.
• New Purdue retirees cannot be denied coverage in
PURcare because of pre-existing conditions.
• PURcare provides dependable coverage and premiums are not
age or gender-rated, as are most individual supplement plans.
• PURcare participants do not need to re-enroll each year. It happens
automatically, unless they choose to stop participating.
• All official Purdue retirees and spouses who are 65 years old and
enrolled in Medicare Parts A and B are eligible for the PURcare or
the Medicare Advantage PPO insurance pool when they retire,
or in the next two Medicare Annual Enrollment periods. The
retiree must be enrolled in a Purdue plan to cover the spouse.
• The larger the population in the insurance pool, the wider
the risk is spread. This benefits everyone in PURcare. Healthy
people subsidize the people with more health problems:
• As people grow older, they tend to have more health problems
• Healthy people cannot opt out of Purdue retiree group plans and
then opt in when they develop health problems. That is not fair
to those who have been in the program from the beginning.
•

4

Purdue retirees, hired before January 2021, who retire prior to age
65, are eligible to continue enrollment in the University’s employee
group health plan or Marketplace plans through Henriott Group, Inc.
until they reach age 65/are eligible for Medicare. A retiree’s spouse
and eligible dependents can continue coverage until the spouse is
Medicare eligible. Disabled adult children (over age 26) will terminate
coverage when the Official Retiree becomes eligible for Medicare.

HEALTH CARE
OPTIONS FOR
RETIREES AGE
65 AND OVER
Purdue University currently sponsors two health
plans for eligible Purdue University retirees.
The plans are structured and administered
differently, but they are both group plans
designed specifically for Purdue retirees.
While each plan has distinct advantages, the
most important consideration when choosing
a plan is how well it suits you. Think about your
current health care needs as well as those you
see down the road. Both plans cover Medicare
services and supplies, plus coverage for
medications and certain other types of care.
The differences come when you look at how
much you are likely to spend out of your
own pocket during the year – for monthly
premiums to participate in a plan as well
as copayments (copays), plan deductibles
and coinsurance when you need care.
To help you understand the differences
between the two plans:

the sections that follow, and
• Read
review the examples in this booklet
• Review your enrollment materials.

Contact a Purdue Human Resources
(HR) Customer Service representative at
765‑494‑2222 or email hr@purdue.edu,
if you have questions.

<65

RETIREES UNDER AGE 65

If you were hired in a benefits eligible position at the
University before January 2021, and are under age 65
when you retire, you are offered the same medical
plans available to faculty and staff.
Contact a Purdue Human Resources (HR) Customer
Service representative at 765‑494‑2222 or email hr@
purdue.edu, for details and cost.

ABOUT PLAN 1: PURcare
While Medicare becomes the primary
health insurance coverage for retirees
age 65 and older, it doesn’t cover
everything. So, Purdue University
offers this group plan to retirees –
called a Senior Supplement plan
with prescription drug (Rx) coverage
that complies with Medicare Part
D – as a way to fill in the gaps.
Plan 1 assumes that you are enrolled
in Medicare Parts A and B and
are paying the required Medicare Part
B premium, usually deducted from
your Social Security check. When
you elect this plan, you pay a monthly
premium to the insurance company
for enhanced coverage. By combining
coverage under this plan with
Medicare, you are covered for most
services and supplies you will need.

To learn more about your premiums
under this plan, refer to the summary
of benefits on pages 6-7.
When you need care, you can see
any doctor or provider that accepts
Medicare for medically necessary
care. All Medicare providers and
facilities in the US are “in-network”.

That means that you will get two
separate Explanations of Benefits
(EOBs) – one quarterly from
Medicare and a separate one
from the insurance company.

A yearly “wellness“ visit and certain
preventive tests are covered 100%
by Medicare. No deductible applies.

The deductible will be applied as
appropriate toward the Medicare
deductibles for Parts A and B until
you have paid a total of $500. The
remainder of the Medicare deductible
amounts will be paid by the plan.
Once the deductible is met, all
other Medicare-eligible medical
expenses for that individual are
covered for the rest of the year.

Claims are first processed through
Medicare. Then, the Senior
Supplement reviews the claim and
pays claim balances according to
provisions and features of Plan 1.

There is a $300 annual deductible for
prescriptions covered by Medicare
Part D. See “Plan 1 Prescription Drug
Benefits” on page 10 to learn about
how prescription drugs are covered.

With the exception of vision benefits,
before medical coverage begins, you
must satisfy a $500 annual deductible.

ABOUT PLAN 2: MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PPO
Plan 2 is a group Medicare Advantage
plan (Medicare Part C) for Purdue
retirees. It includes a Medicare Part
D prescription drug benefit. Plan 2
offers a lower monthly premium than
Plan 1, which means you will pay less
on a monthly basis in exchange for
higher out-of-pocket costs when you
need care. There is a $500 annual
deductible for Medicare-covered
hospital and medical services and a
$300 deductible for Part D covered
prescriptions. Under this plan, there’s
more financial risk, because you will
pay a portion of the cost through
the yearly deductible, and then
copays and coinsurance until you
reach an Out-of-Pocket Maximum.

The plan assumes that you are
enrolled in Medicare Parts A and B
and are paying the required Medicare
Part B premium, usually deducted
from your Social Security check.
When you elect this plan, you pay a
monthly premium to the insurance
company for enhanced coverage.
To learn more about your premiums
under the plans, refer to the
summary of benefits on pages 6-7 .
Since this is a Medicare Advantage
plan, claims are processed directly
through the insurance company –
rather than first through Medicare and
then through the insurance company.

Plan 2 takes into account what
Medicare would have paid toward a
covered service or supply and then
coordinates benefits behind the
scenes. That means that you will get
only one Explanation of Benefits (EOB),
directly from the insurance company,
stating how much was paid to the
provider and what is left for you to pay.
This plan provides a 100% benefit
for an annual wellness visit and
certain preventive tests– with
no office visit copay required.
See “Plan 2 Prescription Drug
Benefits” on page 10 to learn about
how prescription drugs are covered.

5

UNDERSTANDING MEDICARE
Medicare is the federal government’s principal health care insurance program for individuals age 65 and over. In
general, Medicare pays for “acute” care, which is care that the program’s administrators view as reasonable and
necessary to diagnose or treat an illness or injury.
For purposes of your plan election, it is important for you to understand the following four Medicare parts:
•

Medicare Part A (hospital insurance) covers inpatient hospital expenses
and has a deductible that is applied per benefit period

•

Medicare Part B (medical insurance) covers medical expenses such as (doctor’s
office and outpatient expenses) and has an annual deductible

•

Medicare Part C (Medicare Advantage) plans offer people with Medicare Parts
A and B the option of receiving all of their health care services through a private
health insurance company instead of directly through Medicare

•

Medicare Part D (administered by insurance companies) covers a
portion of the cost of prescription drugs you purchase

SUMMARY OF BENEFITS

Review the chart below to see how the plans compare and how much each plan would cost you in 2026.

PLAN COMPARISONS
THE PLAN PAYS – TOWARD COVERED CHARGES
FEATURE

PLAN 1 ‑ PURcare

PLAN 2 ‑ Medicare Advantage PPO

Preventive care

Yearly “wellness” visit covered
100% by Medicare. Annual physical
covered 100% by the plan

100% of the cost of 1 annual “wellness”
visit – no office visit copay applies. Annual
physical covered 100% by the plan.

Hospital and Skilled Nursing
Inpatient stay

100% after the plan deductible
- coverage continues after the
Medicare 100 day limit

100% after your annual deductible and per
day copay - No additional benefit above
what Medicare covers

Outpatient surgery, services and
supplies

100% after the plan deductible

After you meet deductible, usually 80% or
balance after applicable copays

Other covered services and
supplies

100% after the plan deductible

After you meet deductible, usually 80% or
balance after applicable copays

Telehealth/virtual visits

100% after the plan deductible for
visits with participating medical
doctors and mental health
professionals

100% with participating medical doctors;
balance after Specialist copay with
participating mental health professionals

Home health services

100% after the plan deductible, plus
up to a $5,000 annual benefit above
what Medicare covers

100% for Medicare approved services - No
additional benefit above what Medicare
covers

Other services not covered by
Medicare

Vision: reimbursement up to $150
a year for services not covered by
Medicare

Vision: 100% for 1 refraction per year after
your vision copay – contacts and glasses
are not covered
Hearing aids: $500 every 3 years when
purchased through approved provider.

No plan deductible applies
Can be used for refraction, contacts
and/or glasses

6

YOU PAY – TOWARD COVERED CHARGES
FEATURE

PLAN 1 ‑ PURcare

PLAN 2 ‑ MEDICARE ADVANTAGE PPO

Monthly premium
(Your cost to participate in the plan
for 2026)

$366.87
$225.98 for members with VA coverage for Rx

$190.45

Annual deductible
(This is the amount you pay before
the plan begins to pay)

$500 – applied in coordination with Medicare Parts
A & B deductibles

$500

Copays and coinsurance

There are generally no copays or coinsurance – per
plan provisions

After the deductible is met, Copays
are the fixed dollar amounts you
pay. Coinsurance is the percentage
of covered costs you share with
the plan.

Copays apply – per plan provisions, including:
1. Office visits
‑	 $20 Primary care
‑	 $35 Specialist
‑	$35 Mental health individual visit
2. Inpatient Hospital Care: $200/day
3. Outpatient lab and standard X‑rays: $15
4. Skilled nursing facilities: $50 - $100/day
5. Emergency room: $75
6. Urgent care: $35
7. Ambulance: $175
Coinsurance is the portion of allowed costs you share
with the plan – usually 20% per plan provisions
– for most other outpatient services/supplies.

Medical/Hospital Annual
out‑of‑pocket (OOP) maximum
(Once your annual medical plan
costs total this amount, the plan
pays 100% of covered charges for
the rest of the year )
Prescription drugs
(For a more complete description,
see “How Your Prescription Drug
Benefits Work” on page 10)

Once you satisfy the annual deductible, all services
covered by Medicare Part A & B will be covered by
the plan.
The plan has an Open Formulary arranged into
four tiers. There is $300 deductible on covered
prescriptions. After deductible you pay 50% of
the cost for medications (45% by mail order), up
to the Medicare maximum co-pay listed below. In
2026, the Out-of-Pocket Maximum you’ll pay for
Medicare Part D prescription drugs is $2,100.
RETAIL

MAIL ORDER

(30-day supply)

(90-day supply)

Tier 1
Preferred
Generic Drugs

max $15

max $30

Tier 2
Preferred
Brand Drugs
(incl. some
Generics)

max $47

max $94

Tier 3
Non-Preferred
Brand Drugs
(incl. some
Generics)

max $100

max $200

Tier 4
Specialty Tier
Drugs

max $100

max $200

$5,000
(Does not include Part B Rx or Durable Medical
Equipment when purchased at the pharmacy, or
Part D deductible, copays/coinsurance)
The plan has a four-tier formulary that covers
preferred generic, preferred brand, non-preferred
brand and specialty tier prescription medications.
There is $300 deductible on covered prescriptions.
Below are the copay/coinsurance amounts you will
pay for covered prescriptions. In 2026, the Outof-Pocket Maximum you’ll pay for Medicare Part D
prescription drugs is $2,100.
RETAIL

MAIL ORDER

(30-day supply)

(90-day supply)

Tier 1
Preferred
Generic Drugs

$4 copay

$8 copay

Tier 2
Preferred
Brand Drugs
(incl. some
Generics)

$28 copay

$74 copay

Tier 3
Non-Preferred
Brand Drugs
(incl. some
Generics)

$58 copay

$164 copay

Tier 4
Specialty Tier
Drugs

29%

29%

You may purchase a 30- or 90-day supply of covered
medications at most pharmacies; 90-day supplies are
also available through the mail order program.

7

EXAMPLES
One way for you to decide which plan is right for you is to look at some examples
of how benefits would be paid under each plan. This section includes side‑by‑side
examples of hypothetical retirees with different care needs. These examples are
intended to show you, from a simplified view, how to compare these plans. In these
examples, you will notice that only the Purdue plan deductibles are addressed — not
the specifics about how the Medicare Part A and Part B deductibles are applied.

EXAMPLE #1
Charlie is a 66‑year‑old retiree who has already taken advantage of
his preventive care exam benefits. Later in the year, he has a pain in
his leg and again visits his doctor for an exam. Charlie learns that he
will have to go to the hospital, followed by a stay at a skilled nursing
facility. Here are the services for which Charlie will incur costs:
• Charlie enters the hospital and receives care for seven days.
•

He is then transferred to a skilled nursing facility for a 34 day
rehabilitation stay.

Based on the 2026 premium rates, the following side-by-side example shows
you how total estimated annual costs compare under the two plans.

CHARLIE
HEALTH CARE SERVICES

BILLED AMOUNT

T YPICAL MEDICARE ALLOWANCE

1 primary care office visit

$120

$67.50

7‑day hospital stay

$11,663

$5,460

34‑day skilled nursing facility stay

$35,719

$24,960

Overall charges

$47,502

$30,487.50

PLAN 1 CHARLIE PAYS

PLAN 2 CHARLIE PAYS

1 primary care office visit ($120)

$67.50
(counts toward plan deductible)

$67.50
(counts toward plan deductible)

7‑day hospital stay ($11,663)

$432.50
($500 plan deductible reached)

$432.50 to deductible + $1,200 co-pay
($200/day copay)

34‑day skilled nursing facility stay
($35,719)

$0

$1,600 ($10 - $100/day copay)

Charlie’s total cost sharing

$500

$3,300

$4,402.44
($366.87/month)

$2,285.40
($190.45/month)

Annual Premium: $4,402.44
Deductible: $500
Total: $4,902.44

Annual Premium: $2,285.40
Copays: $3,300
Total: $5,585.40

SIDE‑BY‑SIDE COST COMPARISON
SERVICE

Annual Premium
Charlie’s total out‑of‑pocket
medical expenses

(assuming no other costs during year)

8

Example #2
Mary is a 67‑year‑old retiree who has already taken advantage of her
preventive care exam benefits. She is being treated for high blood
pressure and high cholesterol, but is otherwise generally healthy.
Mary visits her primary care physician and a specialist periodically
throughout the year to monitor her blood pressure and cholesterol
levels. Here are the services for which Mary will incur costs:

• Mary visits her primary care physician three times during the year.
• Mary visits her specialist four times during the year.

Based on the 2026 premium rates, the following
side‑by‑side example shows you how total estimated
annual costs compare under the two plans.

MARY
HEALTH CARE SERVICES

BILLED AMOUNT

TYPICAL MEDICARE ALLOWANCE

3 primary care office visits

$360

$235

4 specialist office visits

$1,200

$800

Overall charges

$1,560

$1,035

PLAN 1 MARY PAYS

PLAN 2 MARY PAYS

1st primary care office visit ($120)

$67.50
(counts toward plan deductible)

$120

2nd primary care office visit ($120)

$67.50
(counts toward plan deductible)

$120

1st specialist office visit ($300)

$100
(counts toward plan deductible)

$260 + $35 co-pay
($500 plan deductible reached)

2nd specialist office visit ($300)

$100
(counts toward plan deductible)

$35

3rd specialist office visit ($300)

$100
(counts toward plan deductible)

$35

3rd primary care office visit ($150)

$65
($500 plan deductible reached)

$20

$500

$625

Annual Premium

$4,402.44 ($366.87/month)

$2,285.40 ($190.45/month)

Mary’s total out‑of‑pocket medical
expenses
(assuming no other costs during year)

Annual Premium: $4,402.44
Deductible: $500
Total: $4,902.44

Annual Premium: $2,285.40
Copays: $625
Total: $2,910.40

Side‑by‑Side Cost Comparison
SERVICE

Mary’s total cost sharing

THINGS TO CONSIDER WHEN MAKING YOUR CHOICE

Ultimately, the decision about which plan to choose is yours to make. Choose the option that is likely to have the coverage
you need at a total cost that makes you most comfortable. Keep in mind that even though you can switch between the
Purdue plan options each calendar year, most retirees prefer to avoid making changes to their health insurance. And, of
course, you have the option to waive coverage. You can choose to enroll in one of the Purdue retiree group plans in either the
first or second Medicare Open Enrollment period after you become eligible. Once you cancel a Purdue retiree group plan
to enroll in a plan from the individual market, you are not eligible to re-enroll.
Medicare-eligible official retirees who choose to continue coverage through another employer plan are eligible to return to a
Purdue sponsored plan at the point they lose the other coverage. Retirees have 31 days to contact HR Customer Service to
make this change or other Life Event changes, (e.g. marriage, divorce).

9

HOW YOUR PRESCRIPTION DRUG
BENEFITS WORK
Your prescription drug plan is an important aspect to consider when electing your
health care options, because Plan 1 and Plan 2 deal with prescription drugs differently.
You cannot be enrolled in more than one Medicare Part D prescription plan. It is critical
that you do not enroll in another Part D plan or you will not be eligible to continue in
Purdue Retiree Group plans.
PLAN 1 PRESCRIPTION DRUG
BENEFITS

PLAN 2 PRESCRIPTION DRUG
BENEFITS

Plan 1 prescription drug coverage is a Group Medicare
Part D plan featuring customized benefits. Those who
have prescription drug coverage through the Veterans
Administration (VA) may elect Senior Supplement
only for medical care – at a lower premium.

Plan 2 includes Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage.
You pay a $300 annual deductible and then your share of
the cost of covered medications until you reach the annual
Rx out-of-pocket limit set each year by Medicare ($2,100 for
2026). Once you reach this limit, the plan pays 100 percent
of covered charges for the rest of the year. Unique features
of the Plan 2 prescription drug benefits include:

You pay a $300 annual deductible and then your share of
the cost of Part D covered medications up to an annual Rx
out-of-pocket limit ($2,100 for 2026). Once you reach this
limit, the plan pays 100 percent of covered charges for the
rest of the year. Unique features of the Plan 1 prescription
drug benefits include:
wide range of prescription drugs are
• Acovered
– even those not typically included
on the Medicare Part D formulary listing.

have an open formulary – there are
• You
no preferred brand name distinctions or
step‑therapy limitations to think about.

• There are only a few required prior approvals.
can purchase a 30‑ or 90‑day supply
• You
of maintenance medications at most local
pharmacies; 90‑day supplies are also available
through the mail order program.

10

wide range of prescription drugs are
• Acovered
– including more brand name drugs
than on most individual Part D plans.

are four drug tiers, each with a
• There
different copay or coinsurance arrangement
for retail or mail order coverage.

can purchase a 30‑day supply of maintenance
• You
medications at most local pharmacies; 90‑day supplies
are available through the mail order program.

YOUR TERM LIFE INSURANCE OPTIONS
If you retire from Purdue University prior to age 65, you may continue all or a portion of your University‑provided
Basic Employee Term life coverage and any Additional Employee Term life coverage for which you are
insured as an employee. You may also continue any coverage in force for your dependents.
In addition, you may port your Additional Employee Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D), Spouse, AD&D, and
Child AD&D. All options are available without providing proof of good health.

HOW DO I CONTINUE COVERAGE AT RETIREMENT?
You will receive more information from Securian Financial (formerly Minnesota Life Insurance) once they are notified of
your retirement. Securian Financial will mail the information along with an election form to your home address. If you
choose to keep any or all coverage, you will need to complete and return the election form directly to Securian Financial by
the deadline they specify, usually within 31 days of the date coverage would otherwise terminate.

WHAT OPTIONS EXIST AT AGE 65?
At age 65, any continued Term Life coverage will terminate, and you will
have two options that do not require proof of good health.

coverage paid for by the University prior to retirement may be converted to an individual
• Life
policy. You can maintain this coverage for the rest of your life. Premiums are based on
the age rate applicable at the time of conversion.				

coverage paid for by you prior to retirement may be ported to age 70. This coverage
• Life
continues to be a group Term Life policy, though your rates are higher than those paid
as an active employee and those paid during retirement prior to age 65.		
When ported life coverage terminates at age 70, you may convert it to an individual policy without proof of good health.
If you have questions about your continuation options for life insurance and AD&D coverage
in retirement, call Securian Financial Customer Service at 866-293-6047.
All options for retaining life insurance protection without providing proof of good health
require action within 31 days of the date your coverage would otherwise terminate.

11

IMPORTANT PHONE NUMBERS
MEDICAL
PURcare Senior Supplement:
800‑851‑3802
PURcare Medicare Rx for Groups:		888‑556‑6648
PURcare Premium Billing
866-225-6928
Email: directbilladministration@uhc.com
Medicare Advantage PPO:

		
CUSTOMER SERVICE

888-556-6648
765-494-2222

Email: hr@purdue.edu

RETIREMENT COUNSELING

765-494-1694

			

765-496-4281

PERF INFORMATION

844-GO-INPRS
844-464-6777

FIDELITY
National Call Center:
Purdue Memorial Union Office:
(To make an appointment )
or schedule online
		

800‑343‑0860
800-642-7131

TIAA
General Retirement Questions:
800-842-2252
TIAA Customer Service Contact | TIAA
West Lafayette, Indiana Office:
866-842-3516
Wealth Management and Retirement Planning

REGIONAL CAMPUSES
Retirees with questions or concerns about various benefits should
contact human resources offices at the following numbers:

12

Purdue Fort Wayne:

260-481-6840

Purdue Northwest:

219‑989‑2251

This booklet highlights the main
features of the Purdue University
retiree health care plans. While
this booklet is intended to be
as accurate as possible, the
explanations are subject to the
detailed provisions of the plan
documents or insurance certificates.
If there is any difference between the
information in this booklet and the
legal plan document or insurance
certificates, the plan document or
insurance certificates will govern.

