BEYOND THE STATUS QUO: A CRITICAL ASSESSMENT OF
LIFECYCLE INVESTMENT ADVICE
Aizhan Anarkulova*

Scott Cederburg†

Michael S. O’Doherty‡

July 10, 2025§

Abstract
We challenge two tenets of lifecycle investing: (i) diversify across stocks and bonds and (ii)
reduce equity allocations with age. We estimate optimal age-based weights in a lifecycle model that
nonparametrically preserves time-series and cross-sectional dependencies in asset class returns. The
optimal weights remain near one-third domestic stocks and two-thirds international stocks regardless of age—with no material fixed income allocation. This strategy dominates conventional stockbond strategies in building wealth, preserving capital, and generating bequests. Our investors prefer
diversifying with international stocks, not bonds. Target-date fund investors need 63% more preretirement savings to match the optimal strategy’s expected retirement utility.
JEL classifications: C15, D14, G11, G17, G51
Key words: Lifecycle asset allocation, retirement savings, target-date funds, long-horizon returns

* Goizueta Business School, Emory University. Email: aizhan.anarkulova@emory.edu.
†

Eller College of Management, University of Arizona. Email: cederburg@arizona.edu.
Trulaske College of Business, University of Missouri. Email: odohertym@missouri.edu.
§
We thank Turan Bali, Sreedhar Bharath, David Brown, John Campbell, David Cantor, Allison Cole, Filipe Correia, Tim de
Silva, Victor Duarte, Benjamin Felix, Scott Findley, Carolina Fugazza, Andrei Gonçalves, Clifton Green, Narasimhan Jegadeesh,
Veronika Krepely Pool, Zhongjin Gene Lu, Terry Nixon, Kunal Sachdeva, Rik Sen, John Shim, Mitch Towner, Chuck Trzcincka,
Harry Turtle, and seminar participants at the 2023 MSUFCU Conference on Financial Institutions and Investments, the 2023
Netspar Pension Day, the 2024 Eastern Finance Association, the 2024 SFS Cavalcade North America, the 2024 Southern
Finance Association, the 2025 American Finance Association, the 2025 ASU Sonoran Winter Finance Conference, the 5th
LTI-Bank of Italy Workshop on Long-Term Investors’ Trends: Theory and Practice, Bluemetric, the Brandes Center at the
University of California, San Diego, Emory University, Erasmus University Rotterdam, the Georgia Institute of Technology,
Lehigh University, Louisiana State University, the University of Arizona, the University of Arkansas, the University of Georgia,
and Utah State University for helpful comments and suggestions. The authors acknowledge the financial support provided by
a research grant from Goizueta Business School of Emory University.
‡

1

Introduction
Every year, Americans contribute about 5% of their total employee compensation to defined con-

tribution (DC) pension plans, with contributions of $621 billion in 2022 alone.1 They then face a
question that determines their financial fate: How should I invest my savings? Many consult financial
advisors. These professionals impart two central tenets of lifecycle investing—people should diversify
across stocks and bonds and the young should invest more heavily in stocks than the old—perhaps
having learned them from investments textbooks [e.g., Bodie, Kane, and Marcus (2024)] or CFA study
materials [e.g., Blanchett, Cordell, Finke, and Idzorek (2023)]. Self-directed savers who read a popular
book by Dave Ramsey, Suze Orman, or Tony Robbins receive similar advice [Choi (2022)]. Academics
may study the literature on lifecycle investing and reach the same conclusions [e.g., Viceira (2001);
Campbell and Viceira (2002); and Cocco, Gomes, and Maenhout (2005)]. A great many others are
uninterested or overwhelmed, so they invest in the default option of their employer-sponsored retirement plan. To safeguard these investors, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) created safe harbors
for employer DC plans. The most popular Qualified Default Investment Alternatives (QDIAs) are portfolios that provide “long-term appreciation and capital preservation through a mix of equity and fixed
income exposures based on the participant’s age” [29 CFR § 2550.404c-5(e)(4)(i)].2 As such, regulators rely on “generally accepted investment theories” [29 CFR § 2550.404c-5(e)(4)] that mirror the two
principles to define QDIAs. In summary, these two tenets of investment advice—split investments across
stocks and bonds and invest more in stocks while young than while old—are close to being uniformly
given and universally followed.
In this paper, we challenge these principles of lifecycle investing. We consider a US couple who optimizes expected utility over real retirement consumption and bequest within a lifecycle model with labor
income risk, Social Security income, and longevity risk. Our innovation relative to prior work lies in
the modeling of investment opportunities. We depart from conventional modeling practice by adopting
a nonparametric block bootstrap approach that avoids ex-ante selection of which return features matter for portfolio choice and parametric assumptions about their functional forms. Our block bootstrap
generates forward-looking holding-period returns by resampling long sequences of consecutive historical returns. These sequences are drawn from a comprehensive dataset of returns on domestic stocks,
1
The total DC plan contribution is from the 2024 Private Pension Plan Bulletin from the Department of Labor. The 5%
figure divides $621 billion in 2022 DC contributions by $13,437 billion in 2022 compensation of employees from Table 2.1 of
the national income and product accounts (NIPA) from the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
2
See https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/29/2550.404c-5. Vanguard (2024) reports that target-date funds,
which are QDIAs under 29 CFR § 2550.404c-5(e)(4)(i), make up 98% of the QDIAs in DC plans.

1

international stocks, government bonds, and government bills spanning over 2,600 years of countrymonth data from 39 developed countries.3 As such, our modeling approach preserves the time-series
and cross-sectional properties of stock and bond returns while capturing the latent dynamics of the
investment opportunity set. Across a range of model specifications, the household’s optimal weights are
approximately one-third domestic stocks and two-thirds international stocks at all ages—with virtually
no fixed income allocation. The optimal strategy stands in sharp contrast to the status quo investment
advice favoring age-based stock-bond portfolios.
We deliberately design our lifecycle model and optimization framework to circumvent the intractable
challenge of parametric return modeling and to preserve the full complexity of returns relevant for optimal portfolio choice. Any realistic characterization of investment opportunities requires an infeasibly
large number of parametric choices to model the levels and time variation in means, standard deviations, higher-order moments, correlations, and higher-order cross-moments. These parametric assumptions ultimately drive conclusions about optimal portfolio choice [e.g., Michaud (1989); Brandt (1999);
Garlappi, Uppal, and Wang (2007); Wachter (2010); and Pástor and Stambaugh (2012)], such that
omissions or inaccuracies can seriously undermine the analysis. Our nonparametric bootstrap method
addresses these issues by preserving the underlying time-series and cross-sectional patterns in realized
returns. To model the household’s optimization problem, we incorporate bounded rationality using the
sparse max optimization framework of Gabaix (2014). This approach recognizes that households, like
researchers, face significant challenges in modeling returns. Our baseline household optimizes by choosing a sequence of age-based portfolio weights. The age-based portfolio choice framework also creates a
natural parallel with status quo target-date funds (TDFs). TDFs condition their stock-bond portfolios on
investor age, an approach that both complies with QDIA regulations and is easily implementable within
employer-sponsored plans. As such, our findings are directly informative about optimal TDF design.
In the base case of our lifecycle model, the couple chooses an age-based allocation across domestic
stocks, international stocks, bonds, and bills. We impose constraints—no leverage and non-negative
weights—that reflect reality for most retirement savers. The optimal weights are remarkably stable
as a function of age, with optimal allocations of approximately one-third in domestic stocks and twothirds in international stocks throughout the lifecycle. Although including international stocks in the
3
We consider multiple risky assets but no risk-free asset, similar to Campbell and Viceira (2002, 2005); Campbell, Chan,
and Viceira (2003); Sangvinatsos and Wachter (2005); Hoevenaars, Molenaar, Schotman, and Steenkamp (2008); Koijen,
Nijman, and Werker (2010); and Duarte, Fonseca, Goodman, and Parker (2024). A significant majority of studies include a
risk-free asset, either with a single risky asset [e.g., Merton (1969); Samuelson (1969); Viceira (2001); Cocco, Gomes, and
Maenhout (2005); Pástor and Stambaugh (2012); Dahlquist, Setty, and Vestman (2018); Gomes, Michaelides, and Zhang
(2022); Gomes and Smirnova (2023); and Choukhmane and de Silva (2024)] or with multiple risky assets [e.g., Merton
(1971); Brennan, Schwartz, and Lagnado (1997); Lynch (2001); Lynch and Tan (2010); and Catherine (2022)].

2

investment opportunity set is rare in the lifecycle investing literature, the large weight on this asset class
underscores the importance of allowing for international diversification.4
The only exception to an all-equity approach occurs briefly at retirement: bills receive a 27% weight
at age 65, but this weight shrinks to 7% by age 68 and 0% by age 70. We demonstrate that this allocation
to bills is driven by a desire for tactical cash reserves under a rigid retirement withdrawal rule [i.e., the
common 4% rule of Bengen (1994)]. With a more flexible withdrawal approach, the optimal strategy
remains all equity throughout the lifetime. The tactical cash allocation also does not provide meaningful
economic benefits compared with maintaining full equity exposure.
We compare the optimal age-based strategy with two QDIA benchmarks: (i) a balanced strategy
with 60% domestic stocks and 40% bonds and (ii) a representative TDF. To achieve the same expected
utility from retirement consumption and bequest as a couple investing in the optimal strategy and saving
10.00% of labor income, a couple using the balanced strategy must save 19.44% of income (i.e., nearly
twice as much). The TDF performs moderately better, but still requires a substantially higher savings
rate of 16.27% (i.e., 63% more) to match the expected utility of the optimal age-based strategy. These
findings highlight the substantial welfare costs of following conventional investment advice.
We examine the determinants of expected utility by studying four retiree outcomes: wealth at retirement, retirement income, capital preservation, and bequest at death. The optimal age-based strategy
dominates the two QDIAs in long-term appreciation, with 50% more retirement wealth on average
than the balanced strategy and 39% more than the TDF. Although this strong performance in capital
appreciation may be expected, our simulations also reveal a more striking result: the optimal strategy
compares favorably with the QDIAs in capital preservation even with its dependence on high equity
exposure throughout retirement. Under the 4% withdrawal rule, a couple using the balanced strategy
has a 16.9% probability of running out of wealth before death. The TDF is even worse at 19.7%. In comparison, the probability for the optimal age-based strategy is low at 6.7%. Finally, the optimal strategy
produces average bequests well over twice as large as the benchmarks. Overall, the optimal age-based
portfolio beats the two QDIAs across the board in achieving the PPA goals of long-term appreciation and
capital preservation.
We emphasize that we do not make any theoretical arguments that age does not matter for asset
4
Baxter and Jermann (1997) consider international diversification in the context of non-tradeable human capital, concluding that investors should short domestic markets to hedge labor income risk. Michaelides (2003); Hnatkovska (2010);
Coeurdacier and Rey (2013); and Bretscher, Julliard, and Rosa (2016) study these hedging motives in lifecycle asset allocation models featuring foreign stocks, concentrating on the roles of frictions, incomplete markets, and the strength of the
relation between human capital and domestic asset returns in rationalizing home bias. Several researchers examine international diversification in settings without lifecycle features [e.g., Solnik (1974), Jorion (1985), Eun and Resnick (1988, 1994),
French and Poterba (1991), and Ang and Bekaert (2002, 2004)].

3

allocation, that diversification is unimportant, or that bonds are categorically unsuitable. Rather, our
empirical finding of persistently high equity allocations throughout the lifecycle stems from important
modeling features: the preservation of time-series and cross-sectional return properties, the availability
of international diversification, and the household’s emphasis on real returns. Under these conditions,
the couples are simply choosing to diversify throughout the lifecycle using international stocks rather
than bonds.
This choice reflects the properties of long-horizon returns uncovered by our nonparametric bootstrap. To illustrate, Table I reports the annualized mean and standard deviation of returns on bonds
and international stocks (Panel A); the variance ratios at horizons of one, ten, 20, and 30 years calculated as in Poterba and Summers (1988) (Panel B); and the correlations of log returns and log inflation
(Panel C). Bonds offer modest average real returns (0.95% annually) compared with international stocks
(7.03%), requiring substantial diversification benefits to justify their inclusion in an optimal lifecycle
portfolio. At the one-month horizon, bonds appear less risky with lower standard deviation (9.51%
versus 23.26%) and lower correlation with domestic stocks (0.21 versus 0.33). At the 30-year horizon,
the picture changes. Bonds’ per-year variance increases to 2.30 times the one-year variance, but international stocks’ decreases to 0.75 times. The correlation of bonds with domestic stocks rises to 0.45,
whereas international stocks maintain a steady correlation.5 International stocks better preserve real
buying power (correlation with inflation of −0.01), as bonds suffer during inflationary periods (correlation of −0.78). In sum, bonds ultimately seem unattractive for long-horizon investors. They have low
returns, high long-term variance, high long-term correlation with domestic stocks, and high exposure
to inflationary periods.
Given the evidence against bonds, what gives rise to the conventional wisdom that favors large
bond allocations for retirees? Two methodological choices—preserving time-series dependencies via
block bootstrap and including international stocks—appear to explain the disconnect. Much of the
lifecycle investing literature relies on short-term return moments and focuses on domestic markets.6
To examine the consequences of these design choices, we create an analogous specification within
our framework using an independent and identically distributed (IID) bootstrap and a domestic-only
asset set (i.e., domestic stocks, bonds, and bills). This simplified, convention-inspired approach yields
5
Also see Campbell and Viceira (2002, 2005); Bali, Demirtas, Levy, and Wolf (2009); and Siegel (2014) for evidence on
the risk of bonds over extended holding periods.
6
It is possible to interpret the “stocks” asset class in previous lifecycle studies as representing a mix of domestic and international stock markets. If so, these studies make implicit assumptions about the relative weights across countries as well as
the interdependencies of domestic and foreign stock returns, inflation, and exchange rates. By separately modeling domestic
and international stocks, we allow investors to choose optimal weights and capture the rich patterns in returns, inflation, and
exchange rates across markets.

4

markedly greater reliance on fixed income: at age 65, for example, the optimal portfolio comprises 38%
domestic stocks, 14% bonds, and 48% bills. Varying the design reveals two important patterns. First,
bond allocations are lower with a block bootstrap compared with an IID bootstrap, reflecting bonds’
poor long-horizon return properties from Table I. Second, adding international stocks to the investment opportunity set reduces the weight in fixed income, consistent with international stocks’ favorable
long-horizon properties. In reality, returns do have time-series dependencies and households can invest
internationally, so incorporating these features is both prudent and crucial for optimal portfolio choice.
Our conclusions prove robust across diverse model specifications. We consider the simpler optimization problem of choosing fixed weights throughout the lifetime. The optimal fixed-weight policy of 33%
domestic stocks, 67% international stocks, 0% bonds, and 0% bills closely mirrors the optimal age-based
policy and achieves virtually the same expected utility, with a 10.07% equivalent savings rate relative to
the baseline of 10.00%. Our results are also robust to the sample period (i.e., restricting to post-World
War II), bootstrap design, risk aversion, strength of the bequest motive, retirement withdrawal strategy,
retirement age, contribution rate, and household type (e.g., single versus couple). Our findings are not
driven by data from the US, small countries, or small stock markets.
Our base case is a median investor in Guvenen, Karahan, Ozkan, and Song’s (2021) model of stochastic labor income. Alternative household types with a range of initial income and human capital parameters choose strategies that mirror the base case. We also introduce correlation between labor income
and domestic stock returns using a Gaussian copula; investors adjust their allocation across domestic
and international stocks, but they do not buy bonds.
We assume the retirement contribution rate and retirement date are exogenous in the base case, but
explore two extensions: replacing the constant contribution rate with age- and income-based rates from
Parker, Schoar, Cole, and Simester (2023), and allowing couples to choose optimal retirement timing
based on income, wealth level, and Social Security benefits. These features are important for investors’
utility but not for portfolio choice in our setting, leaving the optimal policy unchanged. Allowing market
timing based on the domestic price-dividend ratio yields an all-equity strategy, except for a modest 9%
weight in bonds in the highest-valuation quintile. Finally, we allow borrowing up to 100% of wealth at
the bill yield plus a modest margin spread. The couple borrows 55% of wealth and effectively leverages
the optimal fixed-weight strategy by allocating 34% to domestic stocks and 66% to international stocks.
Overall, the optimality of investing in equity throughout the lifetime with minimal fixed income exposure
is robust across specifications.
We contribute to the recent normative literature on the optimal design of lifecycle investment strate5

gies [e.g., Michaelides and Zhang (2017, 2022); Dahlquist, Setty, and Vestman (2018); Kraft, Munk,
and Weiss (2019); Gomes, Michaelides, and Zhang (2022); and Duarte, Fonseca, Goodman, and Parker
(2024)]. Our primary contribution to the lifecycle literature is our modeling of the investment opportunity set. Several classic studies assume constant investment opportunities with returns that are normally
or lognormally distributed [e.g., Merton (1969); Viceira (2001); Cocco, Gomes, and Maenhout (2005);
and Gomes and Michaelides (2005)]. Many other studies consider particular aspects of dynamic investment opportunities or non-normalities in returns, finding that optimal lifecycle allocations are affected
by time-varying expected returns, time-varying return variance, and skewness in returns.7 Dynamic
programming methods are commonly used to find optimal portfolio weights in the Markov decision
processes (MDPs) studied in this literature, and researchers must make explicit parametric assumptions
about investment opportunities to satisfy technical conditions [e.g., Stokey, Lucas, Jr., and Prescott
(1989)]. In contrast, we adopt a Monte Carlo optimization method, which is a reinforcement learning
approach to MDPs that finds an approximately optimal policy when transition probabilities can be simulated rather than explicitly modeled. Our block bootstrap simulation preserves empirically relevant
features of investment opportunities. This approach avoids both parametric model specification and
ex-ante assumptions about which return characteristics drive optimal portfolio choice.
Although studies with time-varying investment opportunities provide important insights into optimal intertemporal hedging demands, Cochrane’s (2014, 2022) alternative perspective for long-term
investors focuses on asset payoffs rather than the modeling of state-dependent investment opportunities. Cochrane (2014) states, “the hedging demands emphasized by the portfolio approach are really
means to an end—an optimal consumption stream—rather than the end itself.” Our lifecycle optimization approach embodies this perspective by focusing on the long-horizon asset payoffs that support
retirement consumption and bequest. With our method, the expected utility for a given strategy reflects
complex return dynamics that are implicit in holding-period returns without an explicit model of these
complexities. Investors who approach the lifecycle problem with a focus on long-term payoffs optimally
choose internationally diversified equity portfolios throughout their lifetimes.
7

See, e.g., Campbell and Viceira (1999); Barberis (2000); Lynch (2001); Wachter (2002); Campbell, Chan, and Viceira
(2003); Pástor and Stambaugh (2012); Michaelides and Zhang (2017, 2022); and Gomes, Michaelides, and Zhang (2022)
for evidence on time-varying expected returns; Lynch and Balduzzi (2000) and Chacko and Viceira (2005) for time-varying
variance; and Fagereng, Gottlieb, and Guiso (2017); Catherine (2022); Shen (2024); and Bonaparte, Korniotis, Kumar,
Michaelides, and Zhang (2025) for skewness.

6

2

The status quo in lifecycle investing
In seminal studies, Merton (1969) and Samuelson (1969) provide a baseline for lifecycle asset allo-

cation. They demonstrate that investors have constant optimal allocations to a risky asset and a risk-free
asset under the conditions that human capital is tradeable and investment opportunities are constant.
Subsequent studies addressing the investors’ lifecycle problem relax these assumptions.8
Human capital, as a dominant asset for many working-age investors, is the focus of much of the
literature on lifecycle portfolio choice. With complete markets, investors capitalize labor income and
optimal asset allocation is unaffected [Merton (1971)]. With incomplete markets (e.g., non-tradeable,
non-insurable labor income and borrowing constraints), in contrast, Cocco, Gomes, and Maenhout
(2005) demonstrate that investors optimally choose age-based allocations.9 If labor income risk is
idiosyncratic, human capital substitutes for the risk-free asset in the optimal portfolio and the young
hold more in stocks than the old.10 Bodie, Merton, and Samuelson (1992) consider endogenous labor
supply and retirement with utility over consumption and leisure, finding that labor supply flexibility
increases optimal financial portfolio risk. Because the young have more labor flexibility than the old,
the young should hold more in stocks.11 Reinforcing these human capital effects, mean reversion in
stock returns also makes stocks more attractive for young investors with long horizons [e.g., Barberis
(2000), Wachter (2002), and Siegel (2014)].
Regulation stemming from the PPA builds upon these findings to favor an “investment fund product
or model portfolio that applies generally accepted investment theories [emphasis added], is diversified so
as to minimize the risk of large losses and that is designed to provide varying degrees of long-term appreciation and capital preservation through a mix of equity and fixed income exposures based on the participant’s age, target retirement date (such as normal retirement age under the plan) or life expectancy”
[29 CFR § 2550.404c-5(e)(4)(i)]. TDFs meet these design criteria by following age-based, stock-bond
asset allocation policies. They adopt allocations with higher exposures to equities for younger investors
and increase exposures to fixed income assets as the investors age. Figure 1 illustrates this design with
8

We refer readers to excellent reviews by Campbell (2006); Gomes (2020); and Gomes, Haliassos, and Ramadorai (2021).
See also Heaton and Lucas (1997), Koo (1998), and Viceira (2001) for treatments of non-insurable labor income risk in
infinite-horizon models.
10
Human capital can substitute for the risky asset with a systematic component in labor income [e.g., Viceira (2001);
Campbell and Viceira (2002); Benzoni, Collin-Dufresne, and Goldstein (2007); and Lynch and Tan (2011)], such that the
optimal risky allocation decreases in the presence of labor income if the correlation between labor income shocks and stock
returns is sufficiently high.
11
Farhi and Panageas (2007); Chai, Horneff, Maurer, and Mitchell (2011); and Hubener, Maurer, and Mitchell (2016),
among others, also study the implications for portfolio choice of flexible labor supply and endogenous retirement. Other
studies consider the effects of nonemployment on portfolio decisions [e.g., Bremus and Kuzin (2014); Fagereng, Guiso, and
Pistaferri (2018); and Bagliano, Fugazza, and Nicodano (2019)].
9

7

the advertised unconditional glidepath weights in domestic stocks, international stocks, bonds, and bills
from a TDF offered by a major investment firm.
TDFs have exploded in popularity since the passage of the PPA, with total assets under management
(AUM) reaching $3.5 trillion at year-end 2023 [Parker, Schoar, and Sun (2023) and Pacholok (2024)].
The growth reflects the aggressive trend of plan sponsors’ adoption of automatic enrollment features,
the overwhelming tendency to select TDFs as default funds, and the propensity for participants to retain
the default elections [e.g., Madrian and Shea (2001) and Mitchell and Utkus (2022)].12 For a typical
employee, the default option is a TDF that matches employee age to a target retirement date without
consideration of other employee characteristics [Balduzzi and Reuter (2019)]. Across all participants
in Vanguard plans, 83% use TDFs and 58% hold their entire account balance in a single TDF [Vanguard
(2024)]. In short, age-based TDF strategies now represent the status quo for retirement saving.

3

Data
In this section, we describe the data on asset class returns used in our analyses. We take the perspec-

tive of a US couple saving for retirement. The investment horizons of retirement savers are very long,
extending 75 years or beyond for young savers. The relatively short history of US financial markets
poses a small sample problem given this setting, so we model forward-looking returns by examining the
history of asset class returns from a broad cross section of developed economies. We follow Anarkulova,
Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2022) in classifying countries as developed. The dataset includes monthly
real returns for domestic stocks, international stocks, government bonds, and government bills for 39
developed countries. The data cover the period from 1890 to 2023, but the sample periods for individual countries vary based on data availability and the timing of economic development (i.e., a given
country is included in the sample only for the period after it achieves developed status).
The starting point for constructing the dataset is the GFDatabase from Global Financial Data. For
each sample country, the GFDatabase contains times series of total return indexes, price indexes, dividendprice ratios, and total market capitalization for stocks; yields for ten-year government bonds and shortterm bills; consumer price indexes; and exchange rates. The internet appendix provides detailed
12

As a default option, TDFs benefit investors who are inattentive, have behavioral biases, or lack financial literacy by offering
diversification benefits and automatic reallocations. A large literature shows suboptimal investment decisions related to international diversification [Bekaert, Hoyem, Hu, and Ravina (2017)], asset allocation [Benartzi and Thaler (2001)], contribution
levels [Lusardi and Mitchell (2007, 2011) and Goda, Levy, Manchester, Sojourner, and Tasoff (2020)], stock market participation [van Rooij, Lusardi, and Alessie (2011)], and account concentration in employer stock [Poterba (2003)]. Campbell
(2016); Beshears, Choi, Laibson, and Madrian (2018); and Gomes, Haliassos, and Ramadorai (2021) provide comprehensive
reviews of this evidence.

8

descriptions of the appropriate GFD data series for each country, alternative sources used to fill gaps in
the GFDatabase, calculations of asset class returns, adjustments to these calculations for several periods
surrounding major market disruptions (e.g., the closure of the New York Stock Exchange in 1914 at the
onset of World War I and the Greek government bond default in 2012), and dataset validation.
The dataset is a balanced panel in the sense that each country-month has non-missing returns for
domestic stocks, international stocks, bonds, and bills. The nominal returns for domestic stocks, bonds,
and bills for a given country are measured in the local currency; the nominal returns are then converted
to real returns using the local inflation rate. The nominal international stock returns for a given country
are market-capitalization-weighted averages of the nominal returns for all non-domestic stock markets,
with appropriate adjustments for changes in exchange rates. Analogous to the calculations for the other
asset classes, the nominal international stock returns are converted to real returns based on local inflation.13 As such, all asset class returns for a given country-month reflect the real investment outcomes
of local investors in that month.
The broad sample of asset class returns allows for a more comprehensive characterization of potential investment outcomes relative to samples based on single countries (e.g., the US or the UK). Although
single-country samples are commonly used to calibrate inputs for investment simulations, such samples
contain few independent observations of long-horizon investment outcomes. Moreover, these samples
suffer from both survivor bias [e.g., Brown, Goetzmann, and Ross (1995)] and easy data bias [e.g.,
Dimson, Marsh, and Staunton (2002)]. These biases can contribute to long historical periods over
which realized performance exceeds ex ante expectations [e.g., Fama and French (2002) and Avdis and
Wachter (2017)].14
In Table II, we list each sample country and the corresponding data coverage. Five countries—
Denmark, France, Germany, the UK, and the US—are included in the sample over the full 1890 to
2023 period. The sample periods for the other countries are shorter owing to data availability and
development classification status. Our data cover 91% of the potential country-months in the developed
country sample. Table II also presents the geometric average real return and the standard deviation of
real return for each combination of country and asset class. For the pooled sample of all 31,801 country13
Anarkulova, Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2025) show that the value-weighted average of foreign stock market real returns
and changes in real exchange rates each contribute about half of the overall volatility of the monthly international stock returns
in our dataset.
14
The dataset construction methods are designed to mitigate survivor bias and easy data bias. The sample inclusion dates
for individual countries are based on ex ante measures of economic activity (e.g., the proportion of a country’s labor force
employed in the manufacturing and services sectors and the country’s membership in global policy organizations like the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development), and we take significant steps to construct continuous monthly
data series for each country.

9

month observations, the geometric average return is 0.37% for domestic stocks, 0.44% for international
stocks, 0.04% for bonds, and −0.03% for bills (untabulated). Based on comparisons with the pooled
sample, the average real returns in the US sample are higher for domestic stocks, bonds, and bills and
lower for international stocks. But the US is not an extreme outlier relative to other countries for any
of the four asset classes.15

4

Methods
The lifecycle portfolio choice problem of our household, like most problems in this literature, fits

within the Markov decision process (MDP) framework. The goal in the MDP framework is to find the
policy that maximizes expected reward through state-dependent actions. Dynamic programming is an
important algorithm for MDP problems. It requires that the states and transition probability distributions
are fully specified [e.g., Stokey, Lucas, and Prescott (1989)]. The standard approach in the lifecycle portfolio choice literature involves making simplifying assumptions, such as assuming that risk-free returns
are known and constant, and that risky asset returns are either IID or follow a conditional distribution
characterized by a small number of state variables. Such assumptions are mathematically convenient.
Because the assumptions imply that the state variables and transition probability distributions are fully
specified, the researcher can formulate a Bellman equation and apply a standard recursive dynamic
programming approach to optimize expected utility.
In reality, the set of state variables required to describe transition probability distributions (i.e., conditional return distributions) is neither small nor known. Realistically modeling returns is extraordinarily difficult, leading Brandt (2010) to characterize return modeling as “without doubt the Achilles’ heel
of the traditional econometric approach” to asset allocation.16 Undoubtedly, any set of state variables
specified by an econometrician will be incomplete, such that the transition probability distributions are
not fully specified. The disconnect between typical modeling assumptions and reality has two important
implications for modeling and solving the household’s problem.
15

The standard deviation of bond returns for Germany is extreme relative to the estimates for other sample countries. This
volatility is attributable to the well-known period of hyperinflation in Germany in the 1920s. Excluding all German data from
our model has no material impact on the optimal asset allocation policies described in Section 5.
16
The academic literature has proposed dozens of stock market return predictors [e.g., Goyal, Welch, and Zafirov (2024)]
that capture distinct expected return patterns at short and long horizons [e.g., Cederburg, Johnson, and O’Doherty (2023) and
Anarkulova, Cederburg, and Zhou (2025)]. Additional work has developed a host of methods for forecasting stock market
volatility [e.g., Engle (1982) and Bollerslev (1986)] and many approaches to estimating time-varying tail risk in stocks [e.g.,
Kelly and Jiang (2014)]. The extensive set of state variables implied by this literature would cover only domestic stocks.
Expanding the analysis to multiple asset classes introduces additional modeling complexities for currencies, inflation, interest
rates, and both cross-asset and cross-country dependencies.

10

First, the household faces the same difficult modeling problem as does the econometrician. Assuming that the household knows the true conditional return distribution in such a complex environment
is tenuous [e.g., Hansen (2007)]. Adding to the difficulties presented by the sheer dimensionality of
the problem, it is costly for investors to acquire information [e.g., Huang and Liu (2007) and Nieuwerburgh and Veldkamp (2010)] and investors have limited information-processing capabilities [e.g., Sims
(2003, 2006)]. These characteristics of the problem naturally lead to a design in which the household
has bounded rationality. We therefore adopt the sparse max framework of Gabaix (2014), in which the
household solves a simplified lifecycle problem by attending only to variables of first-order importance
(e.g., age). This bounded rationality formulation is also consistent with prevailing industry practice,
which relies on simple age-based allocation rules as implemented in TDFs.
Second, the standard dynamic programming approach is not applicable because the conditional
return distributions are not fully specified. Reinforcement learning algorithms, in contrast, do not
require a priori knowledge of transition probabilities and learn optimal policies through simulation
rather than explicit modeling. Within this class, we adopt a Monte Carlo optimization method that
finds approximately optimal solutions for MDPs when transition probabilities can be simulated rather
than analytically specified. Our nonparametric block bootstrap approach generates asset class return
sequences that preserve crucial time-series and cross-sectional dependencies. We then find approximately optimal sequences of portfolio weights with Monte Carlo by maximizing average household utility across draws. This approach allows complex return dynamics to influence optimal lifecycle strategies
without requiring that these complexities be explicitly modeled. In sum, our methods are designed to
preserve realistic return properties and directly confront the fact that conditional return distributions
that match reality cannot be formally specified.
The remainder of this section details our lifecycle assumptions, presents the household’s portfolio
choice problem, and discusses our approaches for modeling uncertainty over labor income, investment
returns, and longevity. Section 4.1 describes the lifecycle design. Section 4.2 defines and parameterizes
household utility over retirement consumption and bequest and introduces our base case optimization
problem. Section 4.3 presents the stochastic process for labor income during the working period and
the design of Social Security income during the retirement period. Section 4.4 describes the Monte
Carlo simulation procedure.

11

4.1

Lifecycle design
Households in our base specification are composed of a female ( f ) and a male (m) of equal age. The

model periods are in months indexed by t = 1, 2, . . . , Tmax , where Tmax is the month of death of the last
remaining survivor from the couple. Each member of the household is eligible to work and save starting
from the first month of age 25 (t = 1). The retirement date is denoted Tret , and our base case specifies
an exogenous retirement age of 65, such that Tret = 480. An individual may experience nonemployment
during their potential working years, such that not all investors work the full 40 years. In the base case,
we assume that individuals save rc = 10% of their labor income for retirement, and no contributions
occur during nonemployment periods. The assumed 10% contribution rate is close to the mean (11.7%)
and median (11.0%) contribution rates for participants in Vanguard DC plans in 2023, including both
employee and employer contributions [Vanguard (2024)].17 We also assume that individuals earning
less than Ymin = $15,000 (in 2022 USD) in a given year forego contributing to their retirement plan,
consistent with evidence of low retirement saving rates among this group [e.g., Vanguard (2024)].
At time Tret +1, each individual leaves the workforce (ending either employment or nonemployment)
and begins to draw from retirement savings and Social Security. We assume that investors withdraw
rw = 4% of their account balance at retirement in the first year and inflation-adjusted amounts calculated from this base withdrawal in subsequent years [i.e., the “4% rule” of Bengen (1994)]. In reality,
retirees use a variety of withdrawal strategies. The 4% rule is ubiquitous in popular press and common
retirement advice, so we use it as a simple heuristic for retirement withdrawals.18 We also demonstrate
that our main conclusions hold for alternative retirement withdrawal rules. We note that the outcomes
of households who choose to annuitize fully at retirement will be reflected by our wealth at retirement
results.
The Social Security Administration (SSA) reports conditional death probabilities at each age for
females and males.19 Our simulations incorporate gender-specific longevity risk, and the lifespan of
each individual is randomly determined. Both the female and the male in each couple are alive at
age 25, but one or both may die before retirement at age 65. There is considerable uncertainty over
longevity outcomes. The 5th percentile of age at death for the couple (i.e., the last survivor) is 70.8
years, and the 95th percentile is 100.0 years. This uncertainty is an important feature to consider in
17
Our assumed 10% contribution rate is also similar to Poterba, Rauh, Venti, and Wise’s (2005, 2009) assumed 9% contribution rate to household retirement accounts.
18
In Choi’s (2022) review of the most popular personal finance books, he finds that seven of the 12 books offering explicit
retirement spending advice recommend the 4% rule.
19
See https://www.ssa.gov/oact/HistEst/PerLifeTables/2022/PerLifeTables2022.html.

12

assessing the ability of investment strategies to fund consumption through retirement (see the internet
appendix for further details on the distribution of age at death).
Given the simulation design, the (unmodeled) consumption and potential survivor benefits from
Social Security during the pre-retirement period are independent of the retirement investment strategy.
As such, we do not study consumption in the pre-retirement period and do not include it in the utility
calculations.

4.2

Household utility and portfolio choice problem
Household utility is determined by monthly retirement consumption and a bequest:

U(C, B) =

T
max
X
t=Tret +1

δ

t

Ct /

p

Ht

1−γ

1−γ
+ δ Tmax θ

(B + k)1−γ
,
1−γ

(1)

where C t is real consumption in month t, H t is the household’s size, B is the real bequest, δ is the
subjective discount factor, θ and k are bequest utility parameters, and γ is the coefficient of relative risk
aversion. Following Duarte, Fonseca, Goodman, and Parker (2024), we scale household consumption by
the square root of household size to reflect differences in consumption needs for couples versus singles
and set δ = 1 to equally weight the flow of utility during the retirement period. Our bequest utility
specification follows De Nardi, French, and Jones (2010). We use their estimate for risk aversion of
γ = 3.84, and we assume that this risk aversion coefficient applies to both consumption and bequest.
De Nardi, French, and Jones (2010) estimate a bequest intensity of θ = 2,360 when studying bequest
utility alongside utility from annual consumption, and we multiply this parameter estimate by 12γ to
reflect the mechanical difference in scaling between monthly and annual consumption levels. Finally,
we inflation-adjust their bequest curvature parameter k, which determines the extent to which bequests
are viewed as luxury goods, and use k = $490,000 in 2022 USD.20
The household has bounded rationality and uses the sparse max operator of Gabaix (2014). Under
this framework, the household approaches its lifecycle problem in two steps. It first chooses how to
allocate attention to the features of the problem that the household considers sufficiently important to
affect portfolio choice significantly. The household then chooses portfolio weights to maximize expected
utility within the simplified problem.
Household age is a particularly salient state variable for lifecycle portfolio choice. Age is impor20
We do not consider utility from housing, which is an important asset for many households. Venti and Wise (1991) and
Poterba, Venti, and Wise (2011) show that few households use reverse mortgages or otherwise decrease their home equity
late in life.

13

tant for labor income profiles [e.g., Guvenen (2007)], proximity to retirement, and expected longevity.
Survey evidence indicates the importance of age in household decisions, as Choi and Robertson (2020)
find that “years left until retirement” is the most important self-reported factor for equity allocations.
Investor age is also the sole household characteristic considered by the QDIA regulations that spurred
the growth of status quo TDFs. As described in Section 2, investor horizon and age play central roles
in the academic lifecycle literature. Seminal studies [e.g., Cocco, Gomes, and Maenhout (2005)] show
that optimal portfolio weights vary substantially based on age. Based on this evidence, households
will plausibly view age as more important for portfolio choice compared with other state variables like
wealth, income, and past Social Security contributions.
If households view age as the most important state variable for asset allocation, then they will focus
solely on age in Gabaix’s (2014) framework given particular specifications for the attention function.
In our base specification, the household chooses age-based portfolio weights across domestic stocks,
international stocks, bonds, and bills to maximize expected utility:

max
T

max
{{w t } t=1
}

s.t.

E0 [U(C, B)] = E0 

T
max
X

Ct /

t=Tret +1

p

Ht

1−γ

1−γ
+θ

(B + k)
1−γ

p

1−γ


,

(2)

R t = w′t R t ,

(3)

1′ w t = 1,

(4)

w t ≥ 0,

(5)

W0 = 0,
Wt+1 =

Dt+1 =

(6)

 W (1 + R p ) + S
t
t+1
t+1

for t ≤ Tret ,

 (Wt − Dt+1 )(1 + R p ) for t > Tret ,
t+1

 0
for t ≤ Tret ,
 min{ 1 (rw WT ), Wt } for t > Tret ,
12
ret

(7)

(8)

C t+1 = max{Dt+1 + SS t+1 , SS I t+1 } for t > Tret ,

(9)

B = WTmax ,

(10)

where w t is a 4 × 1 vector of portfolio weights in month t, R t is a 4 × 1 vector of gross real returns
p

on the four assets, R t is the gross portfolio return, 1 is a 4 × 1 vector of ones, Wt is the household’s
end-of-month retirement wealth, S t is the monthly flow of savings for the couple, Dt is the monthly
retirement account withdrawal, SS t is the couple’s monthly combined Social Security benefit, and SS I t
14

is their monthly Supplemental Security Income. Equations (4) and (5) represent the constraints faced
by the couple on taking levered positions and short positions in risky assets. In subsequent analyses, we
relax the restriction on portfolio leverage.
T

max
The optimal weights {w∗t } t=1
provide a sequence for age-based asset allocation. To mitigate the

effects of simulation error on the estimated optimal weights, we restrict the weights to be equal across
all months at a given age (e.g., the optimal age-35 weights satisfy w∗121 = w∗122 = · · · = w∗132 ). We also
group ages 25-29 (when household savings are minimal) and ages 90 and above (when the sample of
surviving households is small).

4.3

Lifecycle income
We model labor income using the model of Guvenen, Karahan, Ozkan, and Song (2021). Their flexi-

ble framework allows for investor heterogeneity, permanent and transitory income shocks, and employment and nonemployment states. They estimate the model to fit a large number of cross-sectional
moments and time-series properties of lifecycle earnings data on millions of US workers from the SSA.
The annual income level for investor i (i ∈ { f , m}) at age τ + 24 (for τ = 1, 2, . . . , 40) is given by
Yτi = (1 − ντi )e(g(τ)+α +β f (τ)+zτ +ϵτ ) ,
i

i

i

i

(11)

where g(τ) is a quadratic polynomial that fits the well-known hump shape of lifecycle earnings, f (τ)
is a linear function increasing in τ, αi and β i are investor-specific parameters that affect the expected
level and slope of earnings, zτi is a persistent earnings component following
i
+ ητi ,
zτi = ρzτ−1

(12)

and ϵτi is a transitory earnings shock. Both the permanent shocks (ητi ) and the transitory shocks (ϵτi )
follow normal mixture distributions. Finally, ντi = 0 represents full-year employment, whereas ντi = 1
is full-year nonemployment. This nonemployment variable takes values as follows:

ντi =


 0

with prob. 1 − pν (τ, zτi ),

(13)

 min{1, φτ } with prob. pν (τ, z i ),
τ

where φτ follows an exponential distribution with mean 1/λ, pν (τ, zτi ) =

i

e ξτ
i

1+eξτ

is the nonemployment

probability, and ξτi = a + b f (τ) + czτi + dzτi f (τ) with b < 0, c < 0, and d < 0. As such, the probability
15

of nonemployment is negatively influenced by the level of the persistent earnings component. This
modeling feature generates persistence in the nonemployment state.
We assume annual income is divided evenly over months in the year. For months 12(τ − 1) < t ≤
12τ, savings is given by
S ti =




1
i
12 (rc Yτ )

for Yτi ≥ Ymin ,
for Yτi < Ymin ,

 0

(14)

and
f

S t = S t + S tm .

(15)

The heterogeneity in earnings processes across investors is captured by two income parameters, αi
and β i , and the initial state of the permanent income component, z0i . High (low) values for αi and
β i designate investor types with high (low) levels and growth rates, respectively, for expected lifetime
earnings, whereas high (low) z0i captures a tendency for high (low) early-career earnings. In our base
case analyses, we set all three parameters for both members of the couple equal to their median values
in the Guvenen, Karahan, Ozkan, and Song (2021) calibration, i.e., (αi , β i , z0i ) = (0, 0, 0).
We simulate from the labor income model using the parameter estimates from the replication code
of Guvenen, Karahan, Ozkan, and Song (2021) with the additional assumption that the income model
applies equally to females and males. We scale the simulation output (which initially has no standard
unit of measurement) to match the level of average log earnings in 2010 USD [Figure C.36 in Guvenen,
Karahan, Ozkan, and Song (2021)] and then convert to 2022 USD by adjusting for the change in the
consumer price index (CPI). Figure 2 plots the distribution of household income from our base case
simulation as a function of household age. The mean reflects the well-known hump shape in earnings
[e.g., Cocco, Gomes, and Maenhout (2005)], and the 10th and 90th percentiles imply considerable
uncertainty in earnings.
Our simulations incorporate retirement income from Social Security benefits and the additional
social safety net from Supplemental Security Income (SSI). Social Security benefits are calculated based
on taxes paid on earnings during the working years. We use the formulas effective in 2022 to calculate
Social Security benefits based on each worker’s earnings. We incorporate spousal and survivor benefits
in the retirement period. In the internet appendix, we provide full details of the Social Security benefit
calculations. Finally, SSI is available to retirees with little other income. The maximum monthly benefit
in 2022 is $1,261 for couples and $841 for singles.

16

4.4

Simulation procedure
Our optimization approach finds approximately optimal portfolio weights using Monte Carlo sim-

ulation. For a given portfolio strategy, we simulate lifecycle outcomes and calculate household utility
following equations (2) to (10). We use grid search to find the portfolio weights that maximize the
average lifetime household utility across simulations.
T

max
We describe the simulation steps for a candidate sequence of portfolio weights, {w t } t=1
. We simu-

late 1,000,000 lifecycle outcomes, with the following steps in each draw:
1. We determine the lifespan of the household. We generate random longevity using conditional
mortality probabilities, and we assume that the probability of death is equal across the 12 months
at a given age. In the base case, we denote the realized lifespans of the female and the male as
T f and Tm and the couple’s lifespan as Tmax = max{T f , Tm }.
2. We adopt a stationary block bootstrap approach in the spirit of Politis and Romano (1994) to draw
a time series of monthly real returns for the four asset classes that covers the couple’s lifespan.
We randomly select a starting country-month observation in the full sample and draw a block of
consecutive returns from the same country to capture time-series dependencies in asset returns.
The block length is drawn from a geometric distribution. The average block length is 120 months
in the base case, so the blocks reflect long-term time-series properties of returns. A set of all
four asset class returns is drawn from each selected country-month to preserve cross-sectional
dependencies across assets, and we denote a monthly real return vector as
stocks
R t = [RDomestic
t

stocks
RInternational
t

RBonds
t

′
RBills
t ].

(16)

In the event that the asset return data from a country-period is insufficient to fill a return block
(i.e., the end of the sample for that country occurs before the number of return vectors in the
block equals the drawn block length), we draw a random country and continue to fill the return
block with return data from the beginning of that country’s sample (i.e., we use a stationary block
bootstrap approach to avoid undersampling). We repeatedly draw blocks of returns from random
countries and periods until we produce a time series of asset class returns that spans the couple’s
lifetime. The final bootstrap draw of asset class returns in the iteration is R = {R1 , R2 , . . . , R Tmax }.
T

max
3. Given the investment strategy {w t } t=1
, we compute a monthly time series of portfolio returns

p

over the couple’s lifetime. The portfolio return in month t is R t = w′t R t .
17

4. The couple begins with no wealth in savings, W0 = 0. We calculate the evolution of wealth
during the working years, considering savings from labor income and returns on invested wealth
as previously described.
5. At retirement, the couple stops working and saving. We calculate the evolution of wealth during the retirement years, considering withdrawals and returns on invested wealth as previously
described. If the household’s wealth is depleted at any time during retirement, it remains at zero
until death. The household also receives monthly Social Security benefits. The couple is supported
by SSI if their income falls below the threshold. The couple’s bequest is all remaining wealth at
the death of the last surviving spouse.
6. The household’s time series of monthly consumption during retirement and its bequest determine
utility according to equation (1).
The average household utility across the 1,000,000 draws is the Monte Carlo estimate of the expected
T

max
utility from the investment strategy {w t } t=1
. For each strategy, we compile statistics for variables of

interest, such as wealth at retirement and retirement-period drawdown.21
We use this simulation approach to estimate expected utility for candidate portfolio strategies and
several benchmark strategies. The optimization procedure for the base case of age-based weights
requires an iterative approach, as the optimal weights at any given age depend on the weights chosen for all other ages. In each iteration, we use a grid search to optimize the weights at each age
conditional on the previous iteration’s optimal weights for other ages. We iterate until both the weight
changes across successive iterations become consistently small and the economic differences become
negligible.
We make utility comparisons across strategies by running simulations as described above but with a
range of potential savings rates to compute an equivalent savings rate. Given the expected retirement
utility from a current investment strategy (e.g., the optimal age-based allocation) with the 10% base
savings rate during the working years, we find the savings rate associated with an alternative investment
strategy that provides the same expected retirement utility.
21

Maximum portfolio drawdowns are calculated as the largest real negative cumulative return relative to the previous peak.
The working-period drawdown occurs entirely within the working years. The retirement-period drawdown begins with a peak
that could occur during either the working years or the retirement years. That is, falling asset prices in the late working years
can contribute to our measured retirement drawdown.

18

5

Results
In this section, we examine optimal portfolio choice in our lifecycle model. We present the opti-

mal age-based strategy and the corresponding utility gains relative to four benchmark strategies (Section 5.1) and then compare strategy performance in the pre-retirement and post-retirement periods
(Section 5.2). We also demonstrate the importance of our bootstrap sampling approach and the specification of the investment opportunity set for determining the optimal age-based policy (Section 5.3).
We then use a fixed-weight specification to evaluate the sensitivity of the optimal investment policy to
a wide range of design assumptions (Section 5.4).

5.1

Optimal age-based strategy
Panel A of Table III summarizes the optimal age-based strategy, and Figure 3 illustrates the sequence

of portfolio weights from age 25 to 95. A household with longevity of 95 years allocates 99% to equity
on average, with an average split of 31% domestic stocks and 69% international stocks. We observe
a slight tilt toward higher domestic allocations during working years relative to retirement years. The
household remains fully invested in stocks except for a brief period early in retirement. Upon retirement
at age 65, the optimal allocation shifts to 26% domestic stocks, 47% international stocks, 0% bonds,
and 27% bills. By age 68, however, the equity allocation again exceeds 90%.
Our key finding is that the optimal age-based policy eschews fixed income investments in favor of
an all-equity portfolio for nearly all of the lifecycle. This result may appear counterintuitive, given the
vaunted diversification benefits and safety offered by bonds. As discussed in the context of Table I, however, bonds become riskier and more correlated with domestic stocks as the investment horizon lengthens. The optimal allocation instead reflects the superior diversification benefits and growth potential
offered by international stocks.
The modest allocation to bills early in retirement represents the household’s response to the sequenceof-returns risk created by the 4% rule’s fixed real withdrawal structure. To illustrate, Figure 4 shows
the optimal age-based strategy under an alternative withdrawal rule—one in which the household withdraws 4% of current retirement wealth rather than 4% of wealth at the retirement date. Given this flexible withdrawal structure, there is no sequence-of-returns risk and the household refrains from investing
in fixed income at all ages. The base case allocation in Figure 3 reflects tactical cash reserves due to the
rigidity of the 4% rule rather than the attractiveness of bills.
Holding cash reserves in bills also provides little economic value. Consider a household that main-

19

tains an all-equity strategy with the same domestic-international split as the optimal age-based strategy.
To gain the same expected utility over retirement consumption and bequest as a 10.00% savings rate in
the optimal age-based strategy, the all-equity household would save 10.05%. Little is lost by investing
exclusively in equity.22
Panel B of Table III shows asset weights for four benchmark strategies and provides an analysis of the
economic differences compared with the optimal age-based strategy. The benchmark strategies are a
100% allocation to bills, a 100% allocation to domestic stocks, a balanced strategy with a 60% allocation
to domestic stocks and a 40% allocation to bonds, and the TDF shown in Figure 1. The bills strategy was
a common default in the pre-PPA era, and the balanced and TDF strategies are QDIAs under the PPA.
The table reports the savings rates that provide households with the same expected utility as a 10.00%
savings rate in the optimal age-based strategy.
The optimal age-based strategy provides higher expected utility than the benchmarks by construction, but the equivalent savings rates reveal large economic magnitudes of utility differences. The three
fixed-weight benchmarks perform poorly. To achieve the same degree of wellbeing as under the optimal
age-based policy, the couple must save 56.71% (bills), 16.42% (domestic stocks), or 19.44% (balanced)
of its annual income during the working years. The status quo TDF adopts an age-based strategy in an
attempt to optimize over the lifecycle, but we find a couple must save 16.27% (i.e., 63% more) to
achieve the same expected utility with the TDF as with the optimal age-based strategy. Overall, Table III
implies that a household currently heeding conventional investment advice can achieve a large increase
in utility by reallocating to an internationally diversified equity portfolio.23

5.2

Lifecycle investment strategy performance
The previous section demonstrates that the optimal weights are approximately one-third domestic

stocks and two-thirds international stocks at all ages, with little fixed income exposure. In this section,
we examine simulation results for couples who adopt this optimal investment strategy or one of the
alternatives from Panel B of Table III. For each strategy, we study four retirement saving outcomes: (i)
22
We also consider a boundedly rational household that conditions on wealth (i.e., above- or below-median wealth) in
addition to age. The optimal weights are qualitatively similar to the optimal age-based strategy, and the equivalent savings
rate is 9.96%.
23
The magnitude of the estimated welfare gains depends on household risk aversion, but our conclusion that the optimal
strategy provides economically large gains relative to the TDF holds for all γ values between zero and ten. As is tradition in
the literature [e.g., Campbell, Cocco, Gomes, and Maenhout (2001)], we take a partial equilibrium view of lifecycle investing
and do not consider equilibrium effects of investor shifts across investment strategies. As Heaton and Lucas (2000) state,
“Although one could look at portfolio choice in a general equilibrium framework, unless the model were capable of generating
a realistic returns process the results on portfolio choice would also be suspect.”

20

the distribution of wealth at retirement, (ii) the distribution of the income replacement rate to describe
the consumption stream in retirement, (iii) the probability of exhausting financial wealth prior to death,
and (iv) the distribution of wealth at death. We also consider two intermediate outcomes: (i) the distribution of the maximum drawdown during the working years and (ii) the distribution of the maximum
drawdown during the retirement years.

5.2.1

Pre-retirement period

Panel A of Table IV summarizes the distributions of retirement wealth. For each strategy, the table
shows the mean, standard deviation, and percentiles of the wealth distribution at the beginning of the
retirement period across 1,000,000 bootstrap simulations. Panel A of Figure 5 provides a visual summary
of the five strategies using box-and-whiskers plots. The middle line is the median, the box designates
the interquartile range, and the whiskers extend to the 10th and 90th percentiles. The exhibits report
wealth at retirement in millions of 2022 USD.
For context in interpreting the wealth levels, couples save $0.24 million on average. As reported in
Table C.I, about 2.3% of households have both members die prior to retirement age. For these couples,
bequests occur prior to retirement and wealth at retirement is $0.
The optimal strategy, which is fully invested in stocks during the working years, outperforms the
alternatives in generating wealth at retirement. Bills perform poorly in wealth accumulation, with an
average retirement wealth balance of only $0.27 million. The poor performance demonstrates that
money market and stable value funds are ineffective retirement saving tools when used in isolation
and provides support for the changes to default DC plan options brought about by the PPA. Investing
in domestic stocks produces $1.02 million in wealth on average (annual withdrawal of $40,800 given
our 4% retirement withdrawal rule), which is higher than the averages for the two QDIAs of $0.71
million for the balanced portfolio (withdrawal of $28,400) and $0.77 million for the TDF (withdrawal
of $30,700). The optimal age-based strategy generates the most wealth on average at $1.06 million,
which supports an annual real withdrawal of $42,500.
More important, the percentiles in Panel A of Table IV show that the distribution of wealth for the
optimal strategy is preferable to the distributions for all other strategies. Concentrating on the poor
outcomes, the optimal strategy has a 5th percentile of $0.13 million versus $0.03 million for bills, $0.07
million for domestic stocks, $0.06 million for the balanced strategy, and $0.09 million for the TDF. The
optimal strategy provides households with impressive upside, and its international diversification limits
downside risk during the saving years.
21

5.2.2

Retirement period and bequest

Panel B of Table IV and Panel B of Figure 5 summarize the distribution of the income replacement
rate during retirement for each strategy. The reported replacement rates are calculated as the mean of
monthly household retirement consumption divided by the mean of monthly household income during
the working ages of 25 to 64.24 The table reports that the two QDIA strategies (along with Social Security
benefits) allow couples to achieve full income replacement, on average. The mean replacement rate is
1.03 for the TDF, for example, although 62% of couples have a replacement rate below one. The optimal
strategy performs best by generating a mean replacement rate of 1.24, and more than half (56%) of
couples achieve full replacement or better. The left-tail outcomes for the optimal portfolio also exceed
those for the QDIA strategies.
Preserving wealth in retirement is crucial, and retirees who exhaust their savings must rely solely on
their Social Security and SSI benefits. Panel C of Figure 5 plots the probability of financial ruin, defined
as reaching $0 in wealth prior to the death of the last survivor in the household. Couples investing in
“safe” bills and using the 4% rule have a 38.9% chance of running out of savings. Fully investing in
domestic stocks is better with a 17.1% ruin probability, but this risk is likely higher than most households
would like to face. The two QDIAs, which invest in fixed income to preserve wealth, also fail to generate
reliable streams of retirement income. The balanced strategy has a ruin probability of 16.9%, and the
status quo TDF has an even higher probability of 19.7%. Recall from Figure 1 that the TDF invests
just 17% in equity throughout much of retirement. The large allocations to bonds and bills do little to
prevent poor retirement outcomes. The ruin probability for the optimal age-based strategy is low in
comparison at 6.7%. Equity offers strong potential for additional investment gains during retirement,
and international diversification is crucial for capital preservation.
Panel C of Table IV and Panel D of Figure 5 display distributional statistics for real wealth upon
the death of the last survivor in the household. A couples’s bequest is $0 if they experience financial
ruin prior to death. The optimal strategy substantially outperforms the other strategies in providing
bequests. The mean wealth at death is $2.66 million for the optimal strategy versus $0.08 million for
bills, $2.61 million for domestic stocks, $1.10 million for the balanced strategy, and $0.72 million for
the TDF. The means are heavily affected by right-tail outcomes. The median couple generates a bequest
of $0.96 million with the optimal strategy, which is far larger than for bills ($0.02 million), domestic
stocks ($0.59 million), the balanced strategy ($0.35 million), or the TDF ($0.27 million). The large
bequests for the optimal strategy reflect both the tendency for stocks to help in building wealth and the
24

The replacement rate is equal to 0.00 for couples who are deceased prior to retirement.

22

relative safety of the strategy in preserving wealth during retirement.25

5.2.3

Portfolio drawdowns

The focus on the four retirement outcomes summarized in Panels A to D of Figure 5 glosses over
important intermediate portfolio performance measures. Investors and regulators may focus on shortterm losses as a metric for the suitability of retirement strategies. To study this issue, Table V and Panels E
and F of Figure 5 report the largest portfolio drawdowns during the working years and retirement years
for each strategy. The reported drawdowns are the largest peak-to-trough declines in real asset values
for a given strategy, and they are expressed in decimal form in the table.
During the working years, each strategy produces large real drawdowns on average. Panel A of
Table V shows average maximal drawdowns of 42% for bills, 67% for domestic stocks, 54% for the
balanced strategy, 52% for the TDF, and 55% for the optimal strategy. The optimal strategy’s 55%
average drawdown would cause discomfort for even the most stalwart investors, but each strategy that
attempts to provide long-term appreciation is subject to similarly large average intermediate losses.
Investors, advisors, and regulators are likely most concerned about the largest potential drawdowns,
and the optimal strategy outperforms the alternatives in the right tail of the drawdown distribution.
The 95th percentile drawdown of 77% for the optimal strategy is favorable relative to drawdowns of
96% (bills), 96% (domestic stocks), 92% (balanced), and 81% (TDF).
Retirement-period drawdowns are likely an even larger concern for households. Panel B of Table V
reports average maximal drawdowns during retirement of 46% for bills, 62% for domestic stocks, 50%
for the balanced portfolio, 40% for the TDF, and 47% for the optimal strategy. According to this metric,
the TDF performs better than the optimal portfolio. Based on avoiding the largest drawdowns, however,
the optimal strategy is the best. The 95th percentile for the optimal portfolio is a 73% drawdown versus
an 89% drawdown for the TDF.
We note that the superior performance of the optimal age-based strategy in the four outcomes (generating wealth at retirement, producing retirement income, avoiding financial ruin, and providing a
bequest) occurs despite the potential for relatively large intermediate drawdowns. Experiencing large
drawdowns is painful for investors, and many investors will have a natural inclination to abandon their
strategies at inopportune times when drawdowns occur. An important policy issue is how to manage
25
In the internet appendix, we further study household retirement outcomes. We show that the favorable performance of
the optimal age-based strategy relative to the benchmarks in achieving retirement outcomes (i) is partially attributable to
continued wealth generation in retirement to combat longevity risk, (ii) persists even if the domestic stock market has a poor
realization during retirement, (iii) is strongest if realized inflation in retirement is high, and (iv) occurs even if the realized
correlation between domestic and international stock markets is high.

23

this behavior, as the optimal strategy relies on maintaining high equity allocations through good times
and bad. An additional policy issue is the extent to which the average drawdown is emphasized relative
to the worst potential drawdowns. The TDF provides lower average and median retirement drawdowns
than the optimal age-based approach, but it has poor worst-case scenarios when high inflation erodes
the real value of bonds in retirement.

5.3

Bootstrap design and investment opportunity set
Our findings on the strong performance of the optimal age-based strategy—which is virtually all

equity throughout the lifecycle—may be surprising given conventional wisdom. Our lifecycle model
detailed in Section 4 has two important differences compared with common approaches: (i) we adopt
a block bootstrap with long blocks (120 months on average) to preserve time-series dependencies in
returns and (ii) we include international stocks in the investment opportunity set. In Figure 6, we study
the impact of these two design choices. In each specification, we use either a block bootstrap or an IID
bootstrap (i.e., one-month blocks), and we include either domestic assets or all assets (i.e., including
international stocks). The figure considers the four combinations of these two choices, with the all-block
approach in Panel D being repeated from Figure 3 (i.e., the base case).
Figure 6 reveals important differences in optimal age-based strategies depending on design choices.
In all cases, pre-retirement portfolios are fully invested in stocks. At age 65, however, the strategies differ
sharply. The domestic-IID case in Panel A has 14% in bonds and 48% in bills versus 0% in bonds and 27%
in bills for the all-block case in Panel D. Each design features rising optimal equity allocations during
the retirement years, but stock-bond allocations differ substantially across the specifications. Across
the four cases, we observe two patterns with respect to design choices. First, using a block bootstrap
reduces the attractiveness of bonds relative to using an IID bootstrap. This pattern reflects the poor longterm bond return properties evident in Table I. Second, adding international stocks to the investment
opportunity set reduces the allocation to bonds and bills. Households invest in fixed income at every
age post-retirement when limited to domestic assets, but do not with access to international stocks.
Consistent with Table I, international stocks are quite attractive relative to bonds as a diversification
tool, especially at long horizons.
Figure 6 helps to reconcile our findings of strong performance for the optimal age-based strategy,
which nearly exclusively invests in equity, with the conventional advice that retirees should invest in
“conservative” bonds and bills. A domestic-IID assumption is made in many academic and practitioner
outlets (e.g., those using monthly return moments from US stocks and bonds to calibrate models). This
24

similarity may explain the widespread support for age-based, stock-bond investing. But the domesticIID method misses two important aspects of modeling the investment opportunity set. First, returns are
not IID. Given that the time-series dependencies in returns have an important impact on optimal asset
allocation, it seems difficult to justify an IID assumption. Second, international stocks are an attractive
asset class. They provide diversification to domestic stock investors and also offer high expected returns.
Investing in equity throughout one’s lifetime is supported by the data when we account for these features
of the investment opportunity set.

5.4

Optimal fixed-weight strategy and lifecycle modifications
A pronounced feature of the optimal age-based strategy summarized in Figure 3 is the stability of

asset class weights over the lifecycle. This pattern suggests that a simpler, fixed-weight strategy may
yield economically similar outcomes. In this section, we consider a bounded rationality household that
approaches a simplified version of the utility maximization problem in Section 4.2, such that the couple
does not condition weights on age. This household maximizes expected retirement utility by choosing
a fixed-weight allocation throughout the lifecycle (i.e., w t = w for t = 1, 2, . . . , Tmax ). We use the
simulation procedure in Section 4.4 with a grid search over potential allocations to domestic stocks,
international stocks, bonds, and bills to find the optimal fixed-weight strategy.
The optimal fixed-weight strategy achieves virtually identical economic outcomes to those of the
more complex, age-conditioned strategy. Under the optimal fixed-weight strategy, the couple invests
33% in domestic stocks, 67% in international stocks, 0% in bonds, and 0% in bills at all ages. These
fixed weights closely align with the average time-series weights from the optimal age-based policy. To
achieve the same expected retirement utility as a 10.00% savings rate in the optimal age-based policy, a
couple with the optimal fixed-weight policy saves 10.07%. The internet appendix demonstrates that the
optimal age-based and fixed-weight strategies provide similar performance in the pre-retirement and
post-retirement periods according to the metrics in Section 5.2. The two strategies are nearly equivalent
in wealth accumulation. The tactical cash reserves in the age-based strategy lead to slight improvements
relative to the fixed-weight strategy for ruin probability (6.7% versus 7.0%) and average retirementperiod drawdown (47% versus 48%), at the cost of a lower average bequest ($2.66 million versus $2.94
million).
Given the similarity in economic outcomes across the optimal age-based and fixed-weight strategies,
the fixed-weight design provides a convenient setting for quantifying welfare losses from deviating from
the optimal allocation. As shown in the internet appendix, expected utility as a function of the allocation
25

to domestic stocks is relatively flat around the optimum of 33% domestic stocks and 67% international
stocks. All allocations ranging from 11% domestic and 89% international to 55% domestic and 45%
international have equivalent savings rates below 10.50% (relative to the optimal fixed-weight strategy).
This finding gives real-world investors considerable latitude in choosing equity strategies. For example,
a US investor may feel comfortable investing over half of their wealth in the domestic market given the
US’s large global weight. As long as investors avoid overly large domestic equity allocations, the utility
costs are small even if they deviate from the optimum but remain invested in stocks. The welfare losses
incurred by deviating from the optimal portfolio by adding fixed income, in contrast, are substantially
greater.
In the remainder of this section, we assess the sensitivity of our main conclusions to a broad set of
modifications to the household’s investment problem. Given the scope of the modifications considered,
the computational demands of the iterative approach to solving for optimal age-based allocations, and
the close alignment in economic outcomes between the age-based and fixed-weight strategies, we focus
exclusively on fixed-weight specifications for these sensitivity analyses.

5.4.1

Age- and income-based contribution rates

Our base case specifies a constant retirement contribution rate. We consider contribution rates that
vary based on age and income. We use the realized contribution rates estimated by Parker, Schoar, Cole,
and Simester (2023) using account-level data on US retirement savers. They divide savers into terciles
based on income and examine investor contribution rates by age groups (i.e., ages 25-27, ages 28-30,
and so on).26 We place each retirement saver in our simulation into one of the age- and income-based
groups based on the age and income cutoffs reported by Parker, Schoar, Cole, and Simester (2023), such
that each individual in our simulation has a time-varying contribution rate that matches the behavior of
US investors. This modification does not affect the optimal fixed-weight strategy. The couple chooses
an allocation of 33% in domestic stocks, 67% in international stocks, 0% in bonds, and 0% in bills.

5.4.2

Optimal retirement timing

We next examine optimal retirement timing. We allow households to optimize across portfolio
choice and retirement age, with potential ages ranging from 62 to 70 (the earliest and latest ages to
claim Social Security). We assume that the couple claims Social Security upon retirement. The investors
26
Fagereng, Holm, Moll, and Natvik (2021) show that the net contribution rate is relatively constant as a function of wealth,
so we concentrate on the age- and income-based savings rates in Parker, Schoar, Cole, and Simester (2023).

26

optimize utility over a bequest and consumption from age 62 until death, and their consumption prior
to retirement (i.e., from age 62 through the chosen retirement age) is set to their earnings minus their
retirement contributions.
To find the optimal retirement ages, we first classify couples into terciles across each of three dimensions as they are turning 62: (i) current earnings, (ii) current retirement wealth, and (iii) expected
Social Security benefit level. This procedure classifies each couple into one of 27 groups. We find the
optimal retirement age for each group. As detailed in the internet appendix, the optimal retirement ages
range from 62 to 70. The optimal age is increasing in current income, decreasing in current wealth, and
decreasing in Social Security benefits. We find the fixed-weight asset allocation strategy that is jointly
optimal with the retirement ages. Incorporating optimal retirement timing produces an optimal asset
allocation of 33% in domestic stocks, 67% in international stocks, and 0% in bonds and bills.

5.4.3

Time-varying investment allocations conditional on the market state

We study whether the couples in our simulations prefer to adopt time-varying allocations that
depend on the market state. The price-dividend ratio of the domestic stock market is a prominent
state variable in the asset allocation literature, so we allow our investors to consider this variable. We
augment our dataset of asset class returns with a lagged price-dividend ratio for each country-month
before running the bootstrap. As such, entering each month, the couple is aware of the current valuation
level of domestic stocks. We divide the market states into quintiles, creating groups of country-months
that range from low price-dividend ratios (from 0.00 to 18.76) to high price-dividend ratios (from 43.67
to infinity). We allow the couples to choose a different asset allocation in each quintile, and we find the
jointly optimal set of state-dependent weights.
Table VI shows the optimal conditional allocations. Panel A repeats allocations for the optimal fixedweight strategy, which does not condition on the market state. Panel B shows the optimal weights for
each price-dividend quintile. When the domestic price-dividend ratio is low, investors weight domestic
stocks heavily at 65% and allocate the remaining 35% to international stocks. In the middle three quintiles, the allocations are similar to the unconditional optimal strategy. In the quintile with the highest
price-dividend ratios, the couples reduce the domestic stock allocation to 16%, increase international
stock exposure to 75%, and invest 9% in bonds. Thus, when domestic stock prices are very high, the
couples optimally allocate a small portion of their wealth to bonds.
To measure the economic gains from considering the market state relative to an unconditional fixedweight strategy, we calculate the equivalent savings rate. To achieve the same expected utility as the
27

couple saving 10.00% with the optimal fixed-weight strategy, a couple using the conditional strategy
saves 9.73%. In untabulated results, we find that nearly 80% of the economic gain from conditioning
is attributable to varying the domestic-international stock allocation rather than to including bonds.27
5.4.4

Additional lifecycle modifications

Table VII presents optimal fixed-weight allocations under alternative lifecycle designs. For each
specification, we report the optimal asset class weights. The last column of the table shows the amount
of borrowing as a percentage of wealth for the specifications in which leverage is allowed. For reference,
Panel A of Table VII reports the optimal fixed-weight policy, which is fully invested in equities with 33%
allocated to domestic stocks and 67% to international stocks.
Panels B through J of Table VII show that our results are insensitive to modifying several aspects of
the simulation design:
• the underlying sample of asset class returns restricted to the post-World War II period (i.e., October
1945 to December 2023),
• the underlying sample restricted to countries with relatively large populations (i.e., a given country’s data are included in the sample only for the period after the country’s population first reaches
0.5% of the world population),
• the underlying sample restricted to countries with relatively developed equity markets (i.e., a
given country’s data are included in the sample only for the period after the country’s market
capitalization-to-GDP ratio first reaches 0.5),
• the underlying sample to exclude all United States data,
• the average block length in the stationary block bootstrap to be 60 months or 240 months,
• the risk aversion parameter from γ = 0.5 to γ = 10.0,28
• the weight on bequest from θ = 0 (i.e., no bequest motive) to θ = ∞ (i.e., utility only from
bequest),
27

If we restrict investors from holding bonds and bills, the optimal conditional strategy invests 64%, 27%, 30%, 30%, and
22% in domestic stocks across the five states with the remainder in international stocks. The equivalent savings rate (relative
to the optimal fixed-weight strategy) for this all-equity conditional strategy is 9.79% compared with 9.73% for the conditional
strategy in Table VI.
28
Calvet, Campbell, Gomes, and Sodini (2025) estimate risk aversion in the cross section of Swedish households. The risk
aversion parameter of 7.5 is close to their mean of 7.57, and their standard deviation of 1.06 implies that the parameters of
5.0 and 10.0 are roughly two standard deviations from the mean. Therefore, the large majority of households lie in this range
according to Calvet, Campbell, Gomes, and Sodini’s (2025) estimates.

28

• the household utility specification to scale consumption by H t (i.e., household size) instead of
p
Ht ,
• the household utility specification to include a subjective discount factor that we set to δ =
0.981/12 (i.e., an annualized discount factor of 0.98),
• the withdrawal strategy to be a constant, real withdrawal rate of rw = 3% or rw = 5%,
• the withdrawal strategy to withdraw an annualized 4% of wealth at the beginning of each month,
• the retirement age to be 62, 67, or 70 (i.e., Tret to equal 444, 504, or 540),
• the contribution rate to be rc = 5% or rc = 15%,
• the lower income limit for retirement saving to be Ymin = $0 or Ymin = $45,000, and
• the household type to be a single female, a single male, a female couple, or a male couple.
None of these alterations has a material impact on the optimal fixed-weight strategy. The weights in
bonds and bills are 0% in every case, and the weight in domestic stocks varies between 27% and 45%.
Investor types
Our base analysis studies households with median parameter values in the lifetime earnings model of
Guvenen, Karahan, Ozkan, and Song (2021). Panel K of Table VII studies four household types differing
along two dimensions: low or high human capital [(αi , β i )] and low or high initial income [z0i ]. These
parameter combinations produce a variety of lifetime earnings profiles (e.g., saving concentrated earlier
versus later in the working years) and total lifetime earnings levels. Despite the differences in savings
behavior across households and the relative importance of savings versus Social Security, the optimal
strategies are virtually identical. The results suggest a one-size-fits-all approach to lifetime portfolio
choice.
Correlated labor income and stock returns
Panel L of Table VII explores the effect of correlation between the persistent earnings shock in Guvenen, Karahan, Ozkan, and Song’s (2021) model and domestic stock returns. The earnings shocks are
annual, so we relate them to annual stock returns. We first generate a distribution of compounded
annual stock returns from our block bootstrap approach. We then use a Gaussian copula approach to
introduce correlation between the bootstrap distribution of annual stock returns and the normal mixture

29

distribution of the earnings shock. The base case has 0.0 correlation, and Panel L considers correlations
ranging from 0.1 to 0.5.29
Introducing positive correlation between income and domestic stock returns decreases the optimal
weight in domestic stocks. At a modest correlation of 0.1, the optimal strategy is 30% in domestic stocks
and 70% in international stocks. At a high correlation of 0.5, the weight in domestic stocks is down to
18% with the remaining 82% allocated to international stocks. None of the couples switches to bonds
when shifting their portfolios away from domestic stocks.30
Leverage
Our primary fixed-weight case considers couples who are constrained from taking on leverage in
their retirement savings vehicles. This constraint is realistic for most investors and can affect the optimal portfolio allocation [e.g., Frazzini and Pedersen (2014)]. Asness (1996) argues, however, that
investors should use leverage to invest in a balanced portfolio with 60% domestic stocks and 40%
bonds rather than invest 100% in equities with no leverage.31 We relax the constraint on leverage to
study hypothetical investors who are able to borrow in their retirement savings accounts.
We model leverage as follows. We assume that investors will pay the prevailing yield on local government bills plus a spread. We consider (i) a high spread of 6.50% that is estimated by Davis, Kubler,
and Willen (2006) from household borrowing costs and near the median broker margin rates as of April
2024, (ii) a medium spread of 1.40% that equals the lowest broker margin rate as of April 2024, and (iii)
a low spread of 0.37% estimated by van Binsbergen, Diamond, and Grotteria (2022) as an average riskfree rate spread over government bills using derivative prices. We consider borrowing levels between
0% and 100% of wealth in increments of 5%. The 100% upper limit is in line with US regulations on
margin for stocks.
The couples who have access to leverage jointly optimize over asset class weights and leverage levels.
Panel M of Table VII reports that a couple subject to the high borrowing spread does not wish to use
29

The literature diverges on the magnitude of the correlation between income and stock returns. Fama and Schwert (1977)
and Cocco, Gomes, and Maenhout (2005), among others, find little relation. Davis and Willen (2000) and Campbell, Cocco,
Gomes, and Maenhout (2001) estimate heterogeneous correlations with respect to educational attainment, with highly educated individuals having correlations as high as 0.3 to 0.5. Benzoni, Collin-Dufresne, and Goldstein (2007) model cointegration
between dividends and labor income, and their model implies a correlation around 0.5 between stock returns and returns to
human capital throughout most of the working years. We consider a wide range of correlations that spans these estimates.
30
We also study the extreme case of perfect correlation considered by Bodie, Merton, and Samuelson (1992) and find that
the optimal fixed-weight allocation is 3% domestic stocks, 97% international stocks, 0% bonds, and 0% bills. This result is
consistent with the pattern in Panel L of Table VII.
31
We compare Asness’s (1996) preferred strategy of 60% domestic stocks, 40% bonds, and 55% borrowing with the optimal
100% equity strategy from our fixed-weight specification with no leverage. His strategy has an equivalent savings rate of
19.14%, indicating that levering a balanced portfolio leads to a large utility loss relative to the optimal fixed-weight, all-equity
strategy with no leverage.

30

leverage. As such, the no-leverage constraint in our primary fixed-weight specification is not binding
for this household. At the medium spread, the couple optimally borrows 55% of their wealth. Rather
than levering up a balanced portfolio, as advocated by Asness (1996), the couple continues to choose
an all-equity portfolio with 34% in domestic stocks and 66% in international stocks. These results show
that households who pay realistic margin rates optimally choose all-equity strategies.
Panel M of Table VII shows that bonds enter the optimal allocation with the lowest spread of 0.37%.
This borrowing spread from van Binsbergen, Diamond, and Grotteria (2022) reflects the risk-free rates
implicit in futures and other derivatives. Few households currently trade derivatives in their retirement
accounts. Leveraged strategies must be actively managed to maintain desired leverage, and leveraged
products are often seen as unsuitable for long-term investors as a result of performance drags from frequent re-leveraging [e.g., Cheng and Madhavan (2009)]. To the extent that households invest through
institutions to achieve this low borrowing cost, management fees would add to the cost of using leverage.32 We study hypothetical investors who can access the risk-free borrowing rates without paying a
management fee or transaction costs. With risk-free borrowing rates, optimal borrowing hits the cap
at 100% of wealth. The optimal portfolio allocations are 28% in domestic stocks, 57% in international
stocks, 15% in bonds, and 0% in bills. Thus, the couples remain heavily invested in stocks, but they
have a small allocation to bonds. In the internet appendix, we demonstrate that the main conclusions
from Panel M of Table VII hold for household risk aversion coefficients between 0.5 and 10.0.

5.4.5

American exceptionalism

As described in Section 3, we model forward-looking returns using a broad set of developed countries. Some contend that the US stock market is “special,” however, such that restricting to the relatively
short sample of US data could be sensible for Americans. One view of American stock market exceptionalism is that high historical returns reflect investors’ past learning about US structural advantages, and
current investor beliefs manifest as high valuation ratios and lower future expected returns [e.g., van
Binsbergen, Hua, Peeters, and Wachter (2025)]. Reliance on the US sample requires a different view—
common among practitioners—that the US will continue to outperform foreign markets and generate
high future returns.33
We explore the role of American exceptionalism beliefs on optimal portfolio choice. We mix the
32
Expense ratios for leveraged ETFs vary. The largest leveraged ETF, ProShares UltraPro QQQ, currently charges an annual
expense ratio of 0.84%. The average leveraged ETF expense ratio is 1.04% (https://www.etf.com/topics/leveraged).
33
See, for example, https://www.blackrock.com/us/financial-professionals/insights/reasons-to-remainoverweight and https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2025-01-13/us-exceptionalism-doubtingamerica-can-still-cost-you-a-lot-of-money.

31

return distributions implied by the full developed country sample and the US sample with weights that
reflect an investor’s belief that the US has more favorable return characteristics. To implement this
approach, we run the simulation with (100 − x)% × 1,000,000 iterations using the developed sample
and x% × 1,000,000 using the US sample, where x% is an investor’s subjective probability that the US
is special. The optimal weights maximize expected utility conditional on the belief.
Our analysis reveals that optimal allocations are sensitive to beliefs. A couple with complete conviction in American exceptionalism opts for a fixed-weight allocation of 100% in US stocks. Even a small
degree of doubt introduces international diversification—a 90% exceptionalism belief corresponds to
an optimal fixed-weight portfolio of 96% US stocks and 4% international stocks. A 50% belief that
future US returns will be special (i.e., that prices do not yet reflect US structural advantages) leads
to an optimal portfolio of 60% US stocks and 40% international stocks, closely aligning with current
global market weights. Thus, the common practice of overweighting US stocks [e.g., French and Poterba
(1991)] requires strong conviction in continued US stock market outperformance. We provide results
for the full spectrum of exceptionalism beliefs in the internet appendix.

6

Conclusion
We approach the household’s lifecycle investing problem with a particular emphasis on modeling

the investment opportunity set. We employ a nonparametric block bootstrap method that preserves
time-series and cross-sectional dependencies in asset returns and avoids distributional and parametric
assumptions about the underlying data generating process. The household optimally chooses an internationally diversified equity portfolio, maintaining stable weights throughout the lifecycle. Our modeling
approach reveals the limitations inherent in bonds and underscores the merits of international stocks for
achieving long-term wealth appreciation and real capital preservation. The optimal age-based investment policy delivers substantial welfare gains relative to conventional age-based stock-bond strategies.
Our findings should be of broad interest to regulators defining QDIA-eligible strategies, investment
management companies designing retirement funds, and plan sponsors shaping DC plan menus and
default investments. These stakeholders may be uneasy with the optimal strategy’s lack of perceived
safety, as its consistently high equity allocation leads to a wide range of retirement wealth outcomes
and exposes investors to the risk of significant intermediate drawdowns. But these features are present
in any lifecycle strategy that targets meaningful capital appreciation. In relative terms, the status quo
balanced and target-date funds, with their large bond allocations, carry the potential for even larger

32

drawdowns in real terms. These funds also expose investors to greater risk of exhausting their savings.
Our results, as a whole, do not suggest that our optimal strategy is safe; they merely suggest that it
is safer than the viable alternatives. The optimal strategy’s overall risk-return profile thus provides a
compelling case for moving beyond the status quo and rethinking traditional approaches to retirement
investing.

33

References
Anarkulova, Aizhan, Scott Cederburg, and Michael S. O’Doherty, 2022, Stocks for the long run? Evidence from a broad sample of developed markets, Journal of Financial Economics 143, 409–433.
, 2025, Long-horizon losses in stocks, bonds, and bills, Working paper, Emory University.
Anarkulova, Aizhan, Scott Cederburg, and Yi Zhou, 2025, The stock market’s two truths: Subjective
beliefs and objective reality, Working paper, Emory University.
Ang, Andrew, and Geert Bekaert, 2002, International asset allocation with regime shifts, Review of Financial Studies 15, 1137–1187.
, 2004, How regimes affect asset allocation, Financial Analysts Journal 60, 86–99.
Asness, Clifford S., 1996, Why not 100% equities, Journal of Portfolio Management 22, 29–34.
Avdis, Efstathios, and Jessica A. Wachter, 2017, Maximum likelihood estimation of the equity premium,
Journal of Financial Economics 125, 589–609.
Bagliano, Fabio C., Carolina Fugazza, and Givanna Nicodano, 2019, Life-cycle portfolios, unemployment
and human capital loss, Journal of Macroeconomics 60, 325–340.
Balduzzi, Pierluigi, and Jonathan Reuter, 2019, Heterogeneity in target date funds: Strategic risk-taking
or risk matching?, Review of Financial Studies 32, 300–337.
Bali, Turan G., K. Ozgur Demirtas, Haim Levy, and Avner Wolf, 2009, Bonds versus stocks: Investors’
age and risk taking, Journal of Monetary Economics 56, 817–830.
Barberis, Nicholas C., 2000, Investing for the long run when returns are predictable, Journal of Finance
55, 225–264.
Baxter, Marianne, and Urban J. Jermann, 1997, The international diversification puzzle is worse than
you think, American Economic Review 87, 170–180.
Bekaert, Geert, Kenton Hoyem, Wei-Yin Hu, and Enrichetta Ravina, 2017, Who is internationally diversified? Evidence from the 401(k) plans of 296 firms, Journal of Financial Economics 124, 86–112.
Benartzi, Shlomo, and Richard H. Thaler, 2001, Naive diversification strategies in defined contribution
saving plans, American Economic Review 91, 79–98.
Bengen, William P., 1994, Determining withdrawal rates using historical data, Journal of Financial Planning 7, 171–180.
Benzoni, Luca, Pierre Collin-Dufresne, and Robert S. Goldstein, 2007, Portfolio choice over the life-cycle
when the stock and labor markets are cointegrated, Journal of Finance 62, 2123–2167.
Beshears, John, James J. Choi, David Laibson, and Brigitte C. Madrian, 2018, Behavioral household
finance, in B. Douglas Bernheim, Stefano DellaVigna, and David Laibson, eds.: Handbook of Behavioral Economics: Foundations and Applications 1 (Elsevier), Amsterdam, pp. 177–276.
Blanchett, David M., David M. Cordell, Michael S. Finke, and Thomas M. Idzorek, 2023, Risk management for individuals, https://cfainstitute.org/membership/professional-development/
refresher-readings/risk-management-individuals, 2024 CFA Program Refresher Reading.
34

Bodie, Zvi, Alex Kane, and Alan Marcus, 2024, Investments. McGraw Hill, New York, NY, 13th edn.
Bodie, Zvi, Robert C. Merton, and William F. Samuelson, 1992, Labor supply flexibility and portfolio
choice in a life cycle model, Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control 16, 427–449.
Bollerslev, Tim, 1986, Generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity, Journal of Econometrics
31, 307–327.
Bonaparte, Yosef, George M. Korniotis, Alok Kumar, Alexander Michaelides, and Yuxin Zhang, 2025,
Stock market ownership transitions, Management Science 71, 4977–5000.
Brandt, Michael W., 1999, Estimating portfolio and consumption choice: A conditional Euler equations
approach, Journal of Finance 54, 1609–1645.
, 2010, Portfolio choice problems, in Yacine Aït-Sahalia, and Lars Peter Hansen, eds.: Handbook
of Financial Econometrics: Tools and Techniques (North Holland), Amsterdam.
Bremus, Franziska M., and Vladimir Kuzin, 2014, Unemployment and portfolio choice: Does persistence
matter?, Journal of Macroeconomics 40, 99–113.
Brennan, Michael J., Eduardo S. Schwartz, and Ronald Lagnado, 1997, Strategic asset allocation, Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control 21, 1377–1403.
Bretscher, Lorenzo, Christian Julliard, and Carlo Rosa, 2016, Human capital and international portfolio
diversification: A reappraisal, Journal of International Economics 99, 578–596.
Brown, Stephen J., William N. Goetzmann, and Stephen A. Ross, 1995, Survival, Journal of Finance 50,
853–873.
Calvet, Laurent E., John Y. Campbell, Francisco Gomes, and Paolo Sodini, 2025, The cross-section of
household preferences, Forthcoming in Journal of Finance.
Campbell, John Y., 2006, Household finance, Journal of Finance 61, 1553–1604.
, 2016, Restoring rational choice: The challenge of consumer financial regulation, American
Economic Review: Papers & Proceedings 106, 1–30.
Campbell, John Y., Yeung Lewis Chan, and Luis M. Viceira, 2003, A multivariate model of strategic asset
allocation, Journal of Financial Economics 67, 41–80.
Campbell, John Y., João F. Cocco, Francisco J. Gomes, and Pascal J. Maenhout, 2001, Investing retirement wealth: A life-cycle model, in Risk Aspects for Investment-Based Social Security Reform.
Campbell, John Y., and Luis M. Viceira, 1999, Consumption and portfolio decisions when expected
returns are time varying, Quarterly Journal of Economics 114, 433–495.
, 2002, Strategic Asset Allocation: Portfolio Choice for Long-Term Investors. Oxford University
Press, Oxford, UK.
, 2005, The term structure of the risk–return trade-off, Financial Analysts Journal 61, 34–44.
Catherine, Sylvain, 2022, Countercyclical labor income risk and portfolio choices over the life cycle,
Review of Financial Studies 35, 4016–4054.

35

Cederburg, Scott, Travis L. Johnson, and Michael S. O’Doherty, 2023, On the economic significance of
stock return predictability, Review of Finance 27, 619–657.
Chacko, George, and Luis M. Viceira, 2005, Dynamic consumption and portfolio choice with stochastic
volatility in incomplete markets, Review of Financial Studies 18, 1369–1402.
Chai, Jingjing, Wolfram Horneff, Raimond Maurer, and Olivia S. Mitchell, 2011, Optimal portfolio choice
over the life cycle with flexible work, endogenous retirement, and lifetime payouts, Review of Finance
15, 875–907.
Cheng, Minder, and Ananth Madhavan, 2009, The dynamics of leveraged and inverse exchange-traded
funds, Journal of Investment Management 7, 43–62.
Choi, James J., 2022, Popular personal financial advice versus the professors, Journal of Economic Perspectives 36, 167–192.
Choi, James J., and Adriana Z. Robertson, 2020, What matters to individual investors? Evidence from
the horse’s mouth, Journal of Finance 75, 1965–2020.
Choukhmane, Taha, and Tim de Silva, 2024, What drives investors’ portfolio choices? Separating risk
preferences from frictions, Forthcoming in Journal of Finance.
Cocco, João F., Francisco J. Gomes, and Pascal J. Maenhout, 2005, Consumption and portfolio choice
over the life cycle, Review of Financial Studies 18, 491–533.
Cochrane, John H., 2014, A mean-variance benchmark for intertemporal portfolio theory, Journal of
Finance 69, 1–49.
, 2022, Portfolios for long-term investors, Review of Finance 26, 1–42.
Coeurdacier, Nicolas, and Hélène Rey, 2013, Home bias in open economy financial macroeconomics,
Journal of Economic Literature 51, 63–115.
Dahlquist, Magnus, Ofer Setty, and Roine Vestman, 2018, On the asset allocation of a default pension
fund, Journal of Finance 73, 1893–1936.
Davis, Steven J., Felix Kubler, and Paul Willen, 2006, Borrowing costs and the demand for equity over
the life cycle, Review of Economics and Statistics 88, 348–362.
Davis, Steven J., and Paul Willen, 2000, Using financial assets to hedge labor income risk: Estimating
the benefits, Working paper, University of Chicago.
De Nardi, Mariacristina, Eric French, and John B. Jones, 2010, Why do the elderly save? The role of
medical expenses, Journal of Political Economy 118, 39–75.
Dimson, Elroy, Paul R. Marsh, and Michael Staunton, 2002, Triumph of the Optimists: 101 Years of Global
Investment Returns. Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ.
Duarte, Victor, Julia Fonseca, Aaron Goodman, and Jonathan A. Parker, 2024, Simple allocation rules
and optimal portfolio choice over the lifecycle, Working paper, University of Illinois.
Duggan, Julián Antonio, 1963, La colocación de los empréstitos externos: La Argentina y los mercados
de capitales, Working paper, Universidad de Buenos Aires.

36

Engle, Robert F., 1982, Autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity with estimates of the variance of
United Kingdom inflation, Econometrica 50, 987–1007.
Eun, Cheol S., and Bruce G. Resnick, 1988, Exchange rate uncertainty, forward contracts, and international portfolio selection, Journal of Finance 43, 197–215.
, 1994, International diversification of investment portfolios: U.S. and Japanese perspectives,
Management Science 40, 140–161.
Fagereng, Andreas, Charles Gottlieb, and Luigi Guiso, 2017, Asset market participation and portfolio
choice over the life-cycle, Journal of Finance 72, 705–750.
Fagereng, Andreas, Luigi Guiso, and Luigi Pistaferri, 2018, Portfolio choices, firm shocks, and uninsurable wage risk, Review of Economic Studies 85, 437–474.
Fagereng, Andreas, Martin Blomhoff Holm, Benjamin Moll, and Gisle Natvik, 2021, Saving behavior
across the wealth distribution: The importance of capital gains, Working paper, BI Norwegian Business School.
Fama, Eugene F., and Kenneth R. French, 2002, The equity premium, Journal of Finance 57, 637–659.
Fama, Eugene F., and G. William Schwert, 1977, Human capital and capital market equilibrium, Journal
of Financial Economics 4, 95–125.
Farhi, Emmanuel, and Stavros Panageas, 2007, Saving and investing for early retirement: A theoretical
analysis, Journal of Financial Economics 83, 87–121.
Fischer, Gustav, 1923, Geld, Kredit, Währung, Volkswirtschaftliche Chronik Jahresübersicht 1923, 679–
708.
, 1924, Geld, Kredit, Währung, Volkswirtschaftliche Chronik December 1924.
, 1925, Geld, Kredit, Währung, Volkswirtschaftliche Chronik Jahresübersicht 1925.
Frazzini, Andrea, and Lasse Heje Pedersen, 2014, Betting against beta, Journal of Financial Economics
111, 1–25.
French, Kenneth R., and James M. Poterba, 1991, Investor diversification and international equity markets, American Economic Review: Papers & Proceedings 81, 222–226.
Gabaix, Xavier, 2014, A sparsity-based model of bounded rationality, Quarterly Journal of Economics
129, 1661–1710.
Garlappi, Lorenzo, Raman Uppal, and Tan Wang, 2007, Portfolio selection with parameter and model
uncertainty: A multi-prior approach, Review of Financial Studies 20, 41–81.
Goda, Gopi Shah, Matthew R. Levy, Colleen Flaherty Manchester, Aaron Sojourner, and Joshua Tasoff,
2020, Who is a passive saver under opt-in and auto-enrollment?, Journal of Economic Behavior &
Organization 173, 301–321.
Gomes, Francisco, 2020, Portfolio choice over the life cycle: A survey, Annual Review of Financial Economics 12, 277–304.
Gomes, Francisco, Michael Haliassos, and Tarun Ramadorai, 2021, Household finance, Journal of Economic Literature 59, 919–1000.
37

Gomes, Francisco, and Alexander Michaelides, 2005, Optimal life-cycle asset allocation: Understanding
the empirical evidence, Journal of Finance 60, 869–904.
Gomes, Francisco, Alexander Michaelides, and Yuxin Zhang, 2022, Tactical target date funds, Management Science 68, 3047–3070.
Gomes, Francisco, and Oksana Smirnova, 2023, Stock market participation and portfolio shares over
the life-cycle, Working paper, London Business School.
Goyal, Amit, Ivo Welch, and Athanasse Zafirov, 2024, A comprehensive 2022 look at the empirical
performance of equity premium prediction, Review of Financial Studies 37, 3490–3557.
Guvenen, Fatih, 2007, Learning your earning: Are labor income shocks really very persistent?, American
Economic Review 97, 687–712.
Guvenen, Fatih, Fatih Karahan, Serdar Ozkan, and Jae Song, 2021, What do data on millions of U.S.
workers reveal about lifecycle earnings dynamics?, Econometrica 89, 2303–2339.
Hansen, Lars Peter, 2007, Beliefs, doubts and learning: Valuing macroeconomic risk, American Economic
Review: Papers & Proceedings 97, 1–30.
Heaton, John, and Deborah J. Lucas, 1997, Market frictions, savings behavior, and portfolio choice,
Macroeconomic Dynamics 1, 76–101.
, 2000, Portfolio choice in the presence of background risk, Economic Journal 110, 1–26.
Hnatkovska, Viktoria, 2010, Home bias and high turnover: Dynamic portfolio choice with incomplete
markets, Journal of International Economics 80, 113–128.
Hoevenaars, Roy P.M.M., Roderick D.J. Molenaar, Peter C. Schotman, and Tom B.M. Steenkamp, 2008,
Strategic asset allocation with liabilities: Beyond stocks and bonds, Journal of Economic Dynamics
and Control 32, 2939–2970.
Huang, Lixin, and Hong Liu, 2007, Rational inattention and portfolio selection, Journal of Finance 62,
1999–2040.
Hubener, Andreas, Raimond Maurer, and Olivia S. Mitchell, 2016, How family status and Social Security
claiming options shape optimal life cycle portfolios, Review of Financial Studies 29, 937–978.
Jeanneau, Serge, and Carlos Pérez Verdia, 2005, Reducing financial vulnerability: The development of
the domestic government bond market in Mexico, BIS Quarterly Review December 2005, 95–107.
Jordà, Òscar, Katharina Knoll, Dmitry Kuvshinov, Moritz Schularick, and Alan M. Taylor, 2019, The rate
of return on everything, 1870–2015, Quarterly Journal of Economics 134, 1225–1298.
Jorion, Philippe, 1985, International portfolio diversification with estimation risk, Journal of Business
58, 259–278.
Kang, Kenneth, Geena Kim, and Changyong Rhee, 2005, Developing the government bond market in
South Korea: History, challenges, and implications for Asian countries, Asian Economic Papers 4,
91–113.
Kelly, Bryan, and Hao Jiang, 2014, Tail risk and asset prices, Review of Financial Studies 27, 2841–2871.

38

Koijen, Ralph S.J., Theo E. Nijman, and Bas J.M. Werker, 2010, When can life cycle investors benefit
from time-varying bond risk premia?, Review of Financial Studies 23, 741–780.
Koo, Hyeng Keun, 1998, Consumption and portfolio selection with labor income: A continuous time
approach, Mathematical Finance 8, 49–65.
Kraft, Holger, Claus Munk, and Farina Weiss, 2019, Predictors and portfolios over the life cycle, Journal
of Banking and Finance 100, 1–27.
Kuznets, Simon, 1973, Modern economic growth: Findings and reflections, American Economic Review
63, 247–258.
Longin, François, and Bruno Solnik, 2001, Extreme correlation of international equity markets, Journal
of Finance 56, 649–676.
Lusardi, Annamaria, and Olivia S. Mitchell, 2007, Baby Boomer retirement security: The roles of planning, financial literacy, and housing wealth, Journal of Monetary Economics 54, 205–224.
, 2011, Financial literacy and retirement planning in the United States, Journal of Pension Economics & Finance 10, 509–525.
Lynch, Anthony W., 2001, Portfolio choice and equity characteristics: Characterizing the hedging
demands induced by return predictability, Journal of Financial Economics 62, 67–130.
Lynch, Anthony W., and Pierluigi Balduzzi, 2000, Predictability and transaction costs: The impact on
rebalancing rules and behavior, Journal of Finance 55, 2285–2310.
Lynch, Anthony W., and Sinan Tan, 2010, Multiple risky assets, transaction costs, and return predictability: Allocation rules and implications for U.S. investors, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis
45, 1015–1053.
, 2011, Labor income dynamics at business-cycle frequencies: Implications for portfolio choice,
Journal of Financial Economics 101, 333–359.
Macaulay, Frederick R., 1938, Some theoretical problems suggested by the movements of interest rates,
bond yields and stock prices in the United States since 1856. National Bureau of Economic Research,
New York, NY.
Madrian, Brigitte C., and Dennis F. Shea, 2001, The power of suggestion: Inertia in 401(k) participation
and savings behavior, Quarterly Journal of Economics 116, 1149–1187.
Merton, Robert C., 1969, Lifetime portfolio selection under uncertainty: The continuous-time case,
Review of Economics and Statistics 51, 247–257.
, 1971, Optimum consumption and portfolio rules in a continuous-time model, Journal of Economic Theory 3, 373–413.
Michaelides, Alexander, 2003, International portfolio choice, liquidity constraints and the home equity
bias puzzle, Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control 28, 555–594.
Michaelides, Alexander, and Yuxin Zhang, 2017, Stock market mean reversion and portfolio choice over
the life cycle, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 52, 1183–1209.

39

, 2022, Life-cycle portfolio choice with imperfect predictors, Journal of Banking and Finance 135,
106357.
Michaud, Richard O., 1989, The Markowitz optimization enigma: Is ‘optimized’ optimal?, Financial
Analysts Journal 45, 31–42.
Mitchell, Olivia S., and Stephen P. Utkus, 2022, Target-date funds and portfolio choice in 401(k) plans,
Journal of Pension Economics & Finance 21, 519–536.
Nieuwerburgh, Stijn Van, and Laura Veldkamp, 2010, Information acquisition and under-diversification,
Review of Economic Studies 77, 779–805.
Pacholok, Megan, 2024, 2024 Target-Date Strategy Landscape, https://www.morningstar.com/lp/
tdf-landscape, Morningstar Research.
Parker, Jonathan A., Antoinette Schoar, Allison T. Cole, and Duncan Simester, 2023, Household portfolios and retirement saving over the life cycle, Forthcoming in Journal of Finance.
Parker, Jonathan A., Antoinette Schoar, and Yang Sun, 2023, Retail financial innovation and stock market
dynamics: The case of target date funds, Journal of Finance 78, 2673–2723.
Pástor, L’uboš, and Robert F. Stambaugh, 2012, Are stocks really less volatile in the long run?, Journal
of Finance 67, 431–477.
Politis, Dimitris N., and Joseph P. Romano, 1994, The stationary bootstrap, Journal of the American
Statistical Association 89, 1303–1313.
Poterba, James, Steven Venti, and David Wise, 2011, The composition and drawdown of wealth in
retirement, Journal of Economic Perspectives 25, 95–118.
Poterba, James M., 2003, Employer stock and 401(k) plans, American Economic Review: Papers & Proceedings 93, 398–404.
Poterba, James M., Joshua Rauh, Steven F. Venti, and David A. Wise, 2005, Utility evaluation of risk in
retirement savings accounts, in David A. Wise, ed.: Analyses in the Economics of Aging (University of
Chicago Press), Chicago, IL, pp. 13–52.
, 2009, Life-cycle asset allocation strategies and the distribution of 401(k) retirement wealth, in
David A. Wise, ed.: Developments in the Economics of Aging (University of Chicago Press), Chicago,
IL, pp. 15–50.
Poterba, James M., and Lawrence H. Summers, 1988, Mean reversion in stock prices: Evidence and
implications, Journal of Financial Economics 22, 27–59.
Reinhart, Carmen M., and Kenneth S. Rogoff, 2011, The forgotten history of domestic debt, Economic
Journal 121, 319–350.
Samuelson, Paul A., 1969, Lifetime portfolio selection by dynamic stochastic programming, Review of
Economics and Statistics 51, 239–246.
Sangvinatsos, Antonios, and Jessica A. Wachter, 2005, Does the failure of the expectations hypothesis
matter for long-term investors?, Journal of Finance 60, 179–230.

40

Schnabl, Gunther, 2019, The 1948 German currency and economic reform: Lessons for European monetary policy, Cato Journal 39, 607–634.
Shearer, Ronald A., and Carolyn Clark, 1984, Canada and the interwar gold standard, 1920-35: Monetary policy without a Central Bank, in Michael D. Bordo, and Anna J. Schwartz, eds.: A retrospective
on the classical gold standard, 1821-1931 (University of Chicago Press), Chicago, IL, pp. 277–310.
Shen, Jialu, 2024, Countercyclical risks, consumption, and portfolio choice: Theory and evidence, Management Science 70, 2862–2881.
Siegel, Jeremy, 2014, Stocks for the Long Run. McGraw-Hill, New York, NY.
Sims, Christopher A., 2003, Implications of rational inattention, Journal of Monetary Economics 50,
665–690.
, 2006, Rational inattention: Beyond the linear-quadratic case, American Economic Review 96,
158–163.
Solnik, Bruno H., 1974, Why not diversify internationally rather than domestically?, Financial Analysts
Journal 30, 48–54.
Stokey, Nancy L., Robert E. Lucas, Jr., and Edward C. Prescott, 1989, Recursive Methods in Economic
Dynamics. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA.
van Binsbergen, Jules H., William F. Diamond, and Marco Grotteria, 2022, Risk-free interest rates,
Journal of Financial Economics 143, 1–29.
van Binsbergen, Jules H., Sophia Hua, Jonas Peeters, and Jessica A. Wachter, 2025, Is the United States
a lucky survivor: A hierarchical Bayesian approach, Journal of Finance 80, 2355–2388.
van Rooij, Maarten, Annamaria Lusardi, and Rob Alessie, 2011, Financial literacy and stock market
participation, Journal of Financial Economics 101, 449–472.
Vanguard, 2024, How America Saves 2024, https://institutional.vanguard.com/content/dam/
inst/iig-transformation/insights/pdf/2024/has/how_america_saves_report_2024.
pdf.
Venti, Steven F., and David A. Wise, 1991, Aging and the income value of housing wealth, Journal of
Public Economics 44, 371–397.
Viceira, Luis M., 2001, Optimal portfolio choice for long-horizon investors with nontradable labor
income, Journal of Finance 56, 433–470.
Wachter, Jessica A., 2002, Portfolio and consumption decisions under mean-reverting returns: An exact
solution for complete markets, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 37, 63–91.
, 2010, Asset Allocation, Annual Review of Financial Economics 2, 175–206.
Zettelmeyer, Jeromin, Christoph Trebesch, and Mitu Gulati, 2013, The Greek debt restructuring: An
autopsy, Economic Policy 28, 513–563.

41

Table I: Empirical properties of real returns for bonds and international stocks
The table summarizes the empirical properties of real returns for bonds and international stocks. The underlying
data are a monthly panel of real asset class returns for 39 developed countries covering the period from 1890 to
2023. The dataset formation details are provided in Section 3. Panel A reports the annualized mean and standard
deviation of real returns for each asset class. Panel B reports variance ratios for each asset class at horizons of
one, ten, 20, and 30 years. Panel C reports the correlation of the log return for each asset class with the log return
for domestic stocks (based on monthly and 30-year returns) and with log inflation (based on 30-year returns).
The statistics reported in Panels B and C are based on a bootstrap simulation. The statistics are estimated from a
sample that excludes data for Germany in 1923.
Asset class
Measure

Bonds

International stocks

Panel A: Moments of annualized real returns
Mean (%)
Standard deviation (%)

0.95
9.51

7.03
23.26

1.00
2.09
2.26
2.30

1.00
0.88
0.80
0.75

Panel B: Variance ratios
VR(1)
VR(10)
VR(20)
VR(30)

Panel C: Log real return correlations
Correlation with domestic stocks (monthly returns)
Correlation with domestic stocks (30-year returns)
Correlation with inflation (30-year returns)

42

0.21
0.45
−0.78

0.33
0.34
−0.01

43

Denmark
France
Germany
United Kingdom
United States
Canada
New Zealand
Belgium
Australia
Sweden
Netherlands
Norway
Switzerland
Austria
Czechoslovakia
Chile period I
Japan
Italy
Portugal
Ireland
Argentina
Spain
Finland
Greece
Luxembourg
Singapore

Country
1890:01
1890:01
1890:01
1890:01
1890:01
1891:01
1896:01
1897:01
1901:01
1910:01
1914:01
1914:01
1914:01
1920:01
1922:05
1927:01
1930:01
1931:01
1934:01
1936:01
1947:02
1959:01
1969:01
1981:02
1982:01
1998:07

Sample start
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
1945:05
1970:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
1966:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12

Sample end
0.46
0.26
0.25
0.41
0.52
0.48
0.47
0.21
0.57
0.47
0.41
0.37
0.38
0.22
−0.14
0.13
0.31
0.19
0.14
0.45
−0.18
0.28
0.73
0.48
0.55
0.44

Mean
3.58
5.40
8.29
4.25
5.01
4.26
3.66
5.03
3.96
4.85
5.19
4.62
4.30
7.27
6.56
6.15
6.59
7.38
7.82
4.77
8.53
5.58
6.24
10.23
5.75
5.74

StDev

Domestic
stocks

0.39
0.45
0.56
0.43
0.34
0.44
0.44
0.39
0.43
0.45
0.41
0.44
0.37
0.57
0.41
0.60
0.51
0.43
0.44
0.46
0.64
0.39
0.41
0.55
0.57
0.29

Mean
3.93
6.58
10.20
4.09
3.85
3.48
4.06
4.57
3.75
4.15
4.39
4.19
4.47
12.79
6.24
8.55
15.92
12.98
4.10
4.08
15.33
4.25
4.35
4.77
4.51
4.09

StDev

International
stocks

0.20
−0.08
−0.14
0.13
0.12
0.18
0.13
0.02
0.14
0.14
0.13
0.13
0.14
−0.38
0.69
−0.92
−0.18
−0.14
0.02
0.16
−1.66
0.14
0.24
0.30
0.28
0.14

Mean

0.17
−0.16
0.15
0.06
0.06
0.11
0.14
−0.04
0.06
0.08
0.01
0.02
0.02
−0.46
0.34
−0.86
−0.32
−0.25
−0.06
0.01
−1.56
0.00
0.03
0.14
0.10
−0.04

Mean

0.73
1.74
0.86
0.87
0.61
0.57
0.58
1.13
0.53
0.96
0.80
0.85
0.61
3.68
3.06
2.34
2.60
1.68
1.34
0.59
2.73
0.69
0.47
1.29
0.57
0.48

StDev

Bills

(Continued on next page)

1.89
2.28
45.61
1.98
1.76
1.66
1.84
1.79
1.73
1.86
1.73
1.73
1.41
4.51
3.28
3.38
3.40
2.56
2.81
2.40
2.84
2.22
2.26
5.41
1.88
2.04

StDev

Bonds

Asset class returns

Table II: Sample coverage and summary statistics
For each developed country, the table reports the sample period start date, the sample period end date, and summary statistics (i.e., geometric mean return
and standard deviation of return) of monthly real returns for domestic stocks, international stocks, bonds, and bills. The development classification and
sample formation criteria are described in the internet appendix.

44

Hungary
Poland
Slovakia
Czech Republic
South Korea
Mexico
Iceland
Chile period II
Israel
Slovenia
Türkiye
Latvia
Lithuania
Colombia

Country
1999:02
1999:06
2000:01
2000:05
2000:11
2001:08
2002:01
2010:01
2010:01
2010:01
2010:02
2016:01
2018:01
2020:01

Sample start
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12

Sample end
0.35
0.26
0.17
0.77
0.63
0.62
0.02
−0.01
0.01
0.41
0.36
0.47
0.02
−0.79

Mean
6.52
6.20
5.10
6.92
6.18
4.94
7.27
4.89
5.07
4.75
7.42
4.42
3.85
9.02

StDev

Domestic
stocks

0.26
0.21
−0.02
0.01
0.34
0.44
0.33
0.70
0.68
0.72
1.11
0.40
0.26
0.46

Mean
4.21
3.78
4.26
4.23
3.93
3.72
4.80
3.99
3.63
3.79
6.49
4.09
4.57
4.75

StDev
0.17
0.22
0.24
0.08
0.25
0.29
0.16
−0.05
0.28
0.09
−0.79
−0.51
−0.82
−0.44

Mean

3.49
2.92
2.96
2.45
2.02
2.67
3.16
1.93
2.14
2.69
6.92
2.23
2.76
4.27

StDev

Bonds

Asset class returns
International
stocks

Table II (Continued)

0.09
0.12
−0.12
−0.10
0.06
0.14
0.14
−0.02
0.09
−0.10
−0.47
−0.36
−0.46
−0.08

Mean

0.53
0.53
0.62
0.63
0.36
0.40
0.54
0.43
0.87
0.80
1.77
0.82
0.80
0.51

StDev

Bills

Table III: Economic value of alternative investment plans
The table reports the investment positions in domestic stocks, international stocks, bonds, and bills for the optimal
asset allocation policy conditional on household age (Panel A) and four benchmark investment strategies (Panel
B). The weights for the TDF strategy and the optimal age-based strategy change over the lifecycle following the
glide paths shown in Figures 1 and 3, respectively. The final column of the table reports equivalent savings rates to
quantify relative economic value in pairwise comparisons of the optimal age-based strategy with each alternative
strategy. Each comparison is based on expected household utility over retirement consumption and bequest across
1,000,000 bootstrap simulations. The household’s savings rate for the base strategy (i.e., the optimal age-based
asset allocation strategy) in the pre-retirement period is 10%. The equivalent savings rate is the household’s
savings rate for the alternative strategy that equates the expected utility from retirement consumption and bequest
for the base and alternative strategies.
Asset class weights
Strategy

Domestic
stocks

International
stocks

Bonds

Bills

Equivalent
savings rate

[0%, 27%]

—

100%
0%
0%
[0%, 10%]

56.71%
16.42%
19.44%
16.27%

Panel A: Optimal age-based strategy
Optimal Age-Based

[24%, 41%]

[47%, 76%]

[0%, 0%]

Panel B: Alternative strategies
Bills
Domestic Stocks
Balanced
TDF

0%
100%
60%
[10%, 54%]

0%
0%
0%
[7%, 36%]

45

0%
0%
40%
[10%, 73%]

Table IV: Retirement saving outcomes
The table summarizes the distributions of real wealth at retirement (Panel A), the real income replacement rate
(Panel B), and real wealth at death (Panel C) across 1,000,000 bootstrap simulations for households adopting
various asset allocation strategies. For each asset allocation strategy, the table reports the mean, standard deviation, and distribution percentiles of each measure of investment performance. Real wealth at retirement and real
wealth at death are reported in millions of 2022 USD.
Moments
Strategy

Mean

Percentiles

StDev

1%

5%

10%

25%

50%

75%

90%

95%

99%

0.23
0.61
0.48
0.55
0.74

0.36
1.18
0.85
0.93
1.27

0.53
2.14
1.40
1.49
2.11

0.65
3.13
1.91
2.00
2.91

0.98
6.79
3.73
3.78
5.90

0.66
0.95
0.86
0.90
1.05

0.78
1.31
1.10
1.15
1.39

0.93
1.90
1.45
1.51
1.92

1.06
2.52
1.79
1.86
2.44

1.73
4.82
3.07
3.16
4.54

0.02
0.59
0.35
0.27
0.96

0.11
1.93
0.98
0.73
2.38

0.23
5.29
2.29
1.57
5.43

0.34
9.76
3.83
2.47
9.17

0.64
31.65
10.65
6.00
27.20

Panel A: Wealth at retirement ($MM)
Bills
Domestic Stocks
Balanced
TDF
Optimal Age-Based

0.27
1.02
0.71
0.77
1.06

0.21
1.75
1.94
1.30
1.40

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.03
0.07
0.06
0.09
0.13

0.06
0.14
0.12
0.16
0.22

0.13
0.30
0.26
0.31
0.41

Panel B: Income replacement rate
Bills
Domestic Stocks
Balanced
TDF
Optimal Age-Based

0.70
1.18
0.99
1.03
1.24

1.27
1.63
1.71
1.55
1.55

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.43
0.50
0.50
0.52
0.59

0.49
0.59
0.57
0.60
0.68

0.57
0.73
0.70
0.73
0.83

Panel C: Wealth at death ($MM)
Bills
Domestic Stocks
Balanced
TDF
Optimal Age-Based

0.08
2.61
1.10
0.72
2.66

0.14
14.71
8.35
5.21
9.96

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

46

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.07

0.00
0.10
0.07
0.04
0.35

Table V: Portfolio drawdowns
The table summarizes the distributions of the maximum portfolio drawdown during the pre-retirement period
(Panel A) and the maximum portfolio drawdown during the post-retirement period (Panel B) across 1,000,000
bootstrap simulations for households adopting various asset allocation strategies. For each asset allocation strategy and drawdown period, the table reports the mean, standard deviation, and distribution percentiles of the
maximum portfolio drawdown.
Moments
Strategy

Mean

Percentiles

StDev

1%

5%

10%

25%

50%

75%

90%

95%

99%

0.37
0.66
0.50
0.51
0.56

0.57
0.78
0.66
0.61
0.61

0.84
0.91
0.85
0.74
0.69

0.96
0.96
0.92
0.81
0.77

1.00
0.99
0.99
0.94
0.91

0.69
0.77
0.66
0.54
0.58

0.94
0.91
0.85
0.76
0.65

0.98
0.96
0.92
0.89
0.73

1.00
0.99
0.98
0.99
0.88

Panel A: Working-period drawdown
Bills
Domestic Stocks
Balanced
TDF
Optimal Age-Based

0.42
0.67
0.54
0.52
0.55

0.26
0.16
0.19
0.16
0.13

0.04
0.32
0.23
0.22
0.24

0.09
0.41
0.29
0.28
0.31

0.13
0.46
0.32
0.32
0.38

0.22
0.55
0.41
0.41
0.48

Panel B: Retirement-period drawdown
Bills
Domestic Stocks
Balanced
TDF
Optimal Age-Based

0.46
0.62
0.50
0.40
0.47

0.30
0.21
0.23
0.23
0.17

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.03
0.27
0.18
0.11
0.18

0.09
0.35
0.24
0.15
0.24

0.22
0.49
0.34
0.23
0.36

0.42
0.63
0.47
0.35
0.51

Table VI: Optimal asset allocation policy conditional on the aggregate price-dividend ratio
The table reports the investment positions in domestic stocks, international stocks, bonds, and bills for the optimal
fixed-weight asset allocation policy (Panel A) and the optimal asset allocation policy conditional on the aggregate
price-dividend ratio (Panel B).
Optimal asset class weights
Market state

Aggregate Pt /Dt

Domestic
stocks

International
stocks

Bonds

Bills

0%

0%

Panel A: Optimal fixed-weight strategy
All

[0, ∞)

33%

67%

Panel B: Optimal strategy conditional on aggregate price-dividend ratio
Low Pt /Dt
2
3
4
High Pt /Dt

[0, 18.76]
(18.76, 23.47]
(23.47, 29.94]
(29.94, 43.67]
(43.67, ∞)

65%
28%
30%
31%
16%

47

35%
72%
70%
69%
75%

0%
0%
0%
0%
9%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

Table VII: Optimal fixed-weight asset allocation policies under alternative design parameters
Panel A reports the investment positions in domestic stocks, international stocks, bonds, and bills for the optimal fixed-weight asset allocation policy. The subsequent panels report the optimal fixed-weight asset allocation
policies under alternative design assumptions, as described in the table. The last column shows the amount of
borrowing as a percentage of wealth for the specifications in which leverage is allowed.
Optimal asset class weights
Domestic
stocks

Description

International
stocks

Bonds

Bills

Borrowing
(% of wealth)

0%

0%

N/A

0%
0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

67%
67%

0%
0%

0%
0%

N/A
N/A

68%
65%
65%
67%
67%
67%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

67%
66%

0%
0%

0%
0%

N/A
N/A

0%
0%

0%
0%

N/A
N/A

0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%

N/A
N/A
N/A

0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%

N/A
N/A
N/A

Panel A: Optimal fixed-weight strategy
Optimal fixed-weight strategy

33%

67%

Panel B: Alternative samples
Post-World War II sample
Countries with large populations
Countries with large market cap-to-GDP ratios
Ex-United States sample

31%
27%
27%
45%

69%
73%
73%
55%

Panel C: Average block length
Average block length of 60 months
Average block length of 240 months

33%
33%
Panel D: Risk aversion

Risk aversion parameter γ = 0.5
Risk aversion parameter γ = 1.0
Risk aversion parameter γ = 2.0
Risk aversion parameter γ = 5.0
Risk aversion parameter γ = 7.5
Risk aversion parameter γ = 10.0

32%
35%
35%
33%
33%
33%
Panel E: Bequest

No bequest motive (θ = 0)
Utility only from bequest (θ = ∞)

33%
34%

Panel F: Household utility specification
Consumption scaled by household size
Subjective discount factor δ = 0.981/12

33%
33%

67%
67%

Panel G: Withdrawal strategy
3% rule (rw = 3%)
5% rule (rw = 5%)
4% of current account value

34%
34%
34%

66%
66%
66%

Panel H: Retirement age
Retirement at age 62
Retirement at age 67
Retirement at age 70

33%
33%
33%

67%
67%
67%

(Continued on next page)

48

Table VII (Continued)
Optimal asset class weights
Domestic
stocks

Description

International
stocks

Bonds

Bills

Borrowing
(% of wealth)

0%
0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

0%
0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

0%
0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

Panel I: Contribution rules
Contribution rate rc = 5%
Contribution rate rc = 15%
Lower income limit Ymin = $0
Lower income limit Ymin = $45,000

33%
33%
33%
33%

67%
67%
67%
67%

Panel J: Household type
Single female
Single male
Both female
Both male

33%
33%
33%
33%

67%
67%
67%
67%

Panel K: Investor type
Low initial income and low human capital
Low initial income and high human capital
High initial income and low human capital
High initial income and high human capital

33%
33%
33%
32%

67%
67%
67%
68%

Panel L: Correlation between persistent earnings shocks and domestic stock returns
Income-domestic stock correlation of 0.1
Income-domestic stock correlation of 0.2
Income-domestic stock correlation of 0.3
Income-domestic stock correlation of 0.4
Income-domestic stock correlation of 0.5

30%
27%
24%
21%
18%

70%
73%
76%
79%
82%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A

67%
66%
57%

0%
0%
15%

0%
0%
0%

0%
55%
100%

Panel M: Leverage
Borrowing spread of 6.50% (high)
Borrowing spread of 1.40% (medium)
Borrowing spread of 0.37% (low)

33%
34%
28%

49

100%

90%

80%

Asset allocation

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%
-40

Bills
Bonds
International stocks
Domestic stocks

-30

-20

-10

0

10

20

30

Years since retirement
Figure 1. Glidepath weights for the target-date fund. The figure shows the asset allocation of the target-date
strategy as a function of time since retirement. The strategy invests in domestic stocks, international stocks,
bonds, and bills.

50

$180,000
Mean
Median

$160,000

$140,000

Household income

$120,000

$100,000

$80,000

$60,000

$40,000

$20,000

$0
25

30

35

40

45

50

55

60

Age
Figure 2. Distribution of household income. The figure shows the distribution of real household income across
1,000,000 bootstrap simulations in 2022 USD as a function of age. Household income is stochastic and follows
the process estimated by Guvenen, Karahan, Ozkan, and Song (2021) with an initial income parameter of
z0i = 0 and human capital parameters of (αi , β i ) = (0, 0). The solid (dashed) line corresponds to the median
(mean) household income as a function of age. The shaded region covers the 10th through 90th percentiles
of the distribution.

51

100%

90%

Bills
Bonds
International stocks
Domestic stocks

80%

Asset allocation

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%
25

35

45

55

65

75

85

95

Age
Figure 3. Optimal age-based asset allocation policy. The figure shows the investment positions in domestic
stocks, international stocks, bonds, and bills for the optimal asset allocation policy conditional on household
age. The vertical dashed line indicates the household’s exogenous retirement age.

52

100%

90%

Bills
Bonds
International stocks
Domestic stocks

80%

Asset allocation

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%
25

35

45

55

65

75

85

95

Age
Figure 4. Optimal age-based asset allocation policy with a 4% of current wealth withdrawal rule. The figure
shows the investment positions in domestic stocks, international stocks, bonds, and bills for the optimal asset
allocation policy conditional on household age. The household’s monthly withdrawal strategy in retirement
is equal to 4% (annualized) of current wealth. The vertical dashed line indicates the household’s exogenous
retirement age.

53

(A) Wealth at retirement

$2.5

1.75

Replacement rate

$2.0

Wealth ($MM)

(B) Income replacement rate

2.00

$1.5

$1.0

1.50
1.25
1.00
0.75

$0.5

0.50
$0.0
Bills

DomStk Balanced

TDF

Optimal

Bills

(C) Financial ruin probability

40%

$5.0

Wealth ($MM)

Probability of ruin

Optimal

30%
25%
20%
15%

$4.0
$3.0
$2.0

10%
$1.0

5%
0%

$0.0
Bills

DomStk Balanced

TDF

Optimal

Bills

(E) Working-period drawdown

100%

100%

DomStk Balanced

TDF

Optimal

(F) Retirement-period drawdown

80%

Drawdown

80%

Drawdown

TDF

(D) Wealth at death

$6.0

35%

DomStk Balanced

60%

40%

20%

60%

40%

20%

0%

0%
Bills

DomStk Balanced

TDF

Optimal

Bills

DomStk Balanced

TDF

Optimal

Figure 5. Measures of investment performance. The figure summarizes the distribution of real wealth at
retirement (Panel A), the distribution of the real income replacement rate (Panel B), the probability of financial ruin (Panel C), the distribution of real wealth at death (Panel D), the distribution of the working-period
drawdown (Panel E), and the distribution of the retirement-period drawdown (Panel F) across 1,000,000
bootstrap simulations for households adopting various asset allocation strategies. In each box-and-whiskers
plot, the middle line corresponds to the median, the box covers the interquartile range, and the whiskers
cover the 10th through 90th percentiles.

54

(A) IID bootstrap, domestic assets

100%

80%

Asset allocation

Asset allocation

100%

60%
40%
20%

35

45

55

65

75

85

60%
40%

0%
25

95

Age
(C) Block bootstrap, domestic assets

100%

80%

Asset allocation

Asset allocation

80%

20%

0%
25

100%

(B) IID bootstrap, all assets

60%
40%

Bills
Bonds
International stocks
Domestic stocks

20%
0%
25

35

45

55

65

75

35

45

55

65

75

85

95

Age
(D) Block bootstrap, all assets

80%
60%
40%
20%

85

0%
25

95

Age

35

45

55

65

75

85

95

Age

Figure 6. Optimal age-based asset allocation policy: Alternative bootstrap designs and investment opportunity sets. The figure shows the optimal asset allocation policy conditional on household age for various
underlying bootstrap specifications and investment opportunity sets. The simulations used to estimate the
optimal strategies in Panels A and B are based on an IID bootstrap, and those used to estimate the optimal
strategies in Panels C and D are based on a block bootstrap with an average block length of 120 months. The
strategies in Panels A and C invest in domestic stocks, bonds, and bills. The strategies in Panels B and D add
international stocks. In each panel, the vertical dashed line indicates the household’s exogenous retirement
age.

55

Internet Appendix
“Beyond the Status Quo: A Critical Assessment of Lifecycle
Investment Advice”
A

Data appendix

This appendix describes our development classification approach, data sources, calculations of asset
class returns, special data issues, and dataset validation. Section A.1 outlines our development classification and data sources used to compute asset class returns. Sections A.2 to A.5 provide details on the
calculations of returns for domestic stocks, international stocks, government bonds, and government
bills, respectively, and special data issues related to each asset class. Section A.6 presents data construction details for other variables. Section A.7 compares our data on stock and bond returns with data
from alternative sources.

A.1

Development classification and data sources

We follow Anarkulova, Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2022) to classify countries as developed. We
classify a given country as developed early in the sample period if its agricultural labor share is less
than 50% based on evidence about labor patterns from the economics literature [e.g., Kuznets (1973)].
Beginning with the formation of the Organisation for European Economic Co-operation (OEEC) in 1948,
we use membership in the OEEC and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD) to identify development dates.
To form a balanced panel, a given developed country is not included in our sample until its government issues ten-year bonds. Sample eligibility postdates development for several countries on this
basis. The sample eligibility date is the latest of 1890 (i.e., the sample period start date for our study),
the country development year, and the year in which the country first issued long-term bonds.
Table A.I displays the development date, reason for classification, sample eligibility date, and data
coverage for each country. In three instances, a previously developed country is reclassified as developing. These instances occur in Argentina, Chile, and Czechoslovakia, and each reclassification results
from substantial changes in governments and markets in these countries. Chile, the Czech Republic,
and Slovakia reenter the sample with membership in the OECD. We include the early periods in these
countries to avoid survivor bias.
For some countries, we have missing data at the beginning of the eligible period. Returns on a
diversified domestic stock index are the binding data constraint in each of these instances. No country
has data gaps in the middle or at the end of its series.
The primary source of data for our study is the GFDatabase from Global Financial Data (GFD). The
database contains long time series of total return indexes, price indexes, dividend-price ratios, and total
market capitalization for stocks; yields for ten-year government bonds and short-term bills; consumer
price indexes; and exchange rates for a broad set of countries. Table A.II reports the data series that we
use to compute monthly stock, bond, and bill returns for each country. As described in the footnotes to
Table A.II, we supplement the data from GFD with data from other sources.

A.2

Domestic stocks

The GFDatabase contains data for total return indexes, price indexes, and dividend-price ratios. It
includes stock market indexes that are created and calculated by stock exchanges (e.g., the Tokyo Stock
1

Price Index from the Tokyo Stock Exchange), by well-known index providers (e.g., the S&P 500 Index),
or by GFD directly from original source documents. Multiple stock indexes are available in the database
for some countries and periods. We select a single index in these cases by considering the breadth of
market coverage and the length of historical coverage. We use a total return index whenever one is
available, and we otherwise use a price index and a dividend-price ratio to calculate returns.
For sample months in which a total return index is available, we calculate the monthly nominal
return,
Total
I i,t
stocks
RNominal
=
,
(A1)
i,t
Total
I i,t−1
Total
stocks
where I i,t
is the total return index for country i at the end of month t and RNominal
is the gross
i,t
nominal return for country i in month t. If no total return index is available, we use price index and
dividend-price ratio data to calculate returns. We assume that the annual dividend reflected by the
Price
reported dividend-price ratio is paid equally across months in the year. If I i,t
is the price index and

D̂i,t is the estimated dividend (appropriately scaled to the level of the price index) for country i in
month t, then we calculate the monthly nominal return,
stocks
=
RNominal
i,t

Price
I i,t
+ D̂i,t
Price
I i,t−1

.

(A2)

Nominal returns reflect diversified investments in a broad country-level index. To calculate real
returns, we first calculate gross inflation,
Πi,t =

CPI
I i,t
CPI
I i,t−1

,

(A3)

CPI
where I i,t
is the consumer price index (CPI) for country i at the end of month t. We then calculate the
gross real return on domestic stocks,

stocks
=
RDomestic
i,t

stocks
RNominal
i,t

Πi,t

.

(A4)

This return calculation produces real returns that are denominated in the local currency of country i.
A.2.1

Data issues related to domestic stocks

Our treatments of special data issues mirror those in Anarkulova, Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2022)
with minor exceptions. Details on the data adjustments required to compute nominal and real stock
returns for our developed country sample are available in Anarkulova, Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2022)
and the corresponding internet appendix. Additional adjustments are described below.
We measure returns that are denominated in the primary home currency with one exception. Our
real returns for Germany are denominated in gold marks (rather than paper marks) for the 1917 to
1923 period. Extraordinary hyperinflation during this period complicates the calculation of real returns
based on nominal returns in paper marks, and the GFDatabase reports a series of stock market returns
denominated in gold marks.
The internet appendix for Anarkulova, Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2022) outlines the smoothing
procedures used to fill gaps in return series for short periods in a few sample countries. In addition to
those cases, we apply a smoothing procedure to convert five- and seven-month return data for Austria
2

over the period from January 1920 to February 1922 and quarterly return data for Belgium over the
period from May 1919 to January 1926 into time series of monthly returns. In particular, we make the
assumption of constant monthly returns within each period. We apply a similar procedure to quarterly
return data for Switzerland from February 1914 to July 1914 and from August 1916 to January 1921.
Czechoslovakia is missing return data for July 1921. We estimate returns for July 1921 and August
1921 using price index data for June 1921 and August 1921 under the assumption of a constant return
for July and August of 1921.
One difference between our sample construction approach and the one in Anarkulova, Cederburg,
and O’Doherty (2022) relates to the handling of multi-month return observations associated with stock
market disruptions and closures. There are 35 instances in which stock exchanges closed for extended
periods, typically as the result of a major war, political revolution, or banking crisis. Investors tend
to earn negative real returns in these periods, such that omitting countries or periods because of these
stock return data gaps induces an easy data bias. Table A.III reports cases of exchange closures or heavily
restricted trading during our sample period along with the corresponding nominal and real returns. The
bootstrap procedure in Anarkulova, Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2022) treats each of these events as a
single return observation covering a multi-month period. This treatment reflects that most investors
would have been unable to trade during these periods, such that they could only wait for the eventual
realizations of the longer-period returns. Such treatment is not ideal for our multi-asset analysis, which
requires a balanced panel of monthly asset returns for each country. At the same time, we need the data
to reflect the economic outcomes of stock market investors.
In our current approach to handling multi-month returns, we take the perspective of an investor in a
hypothetical fund attempting to track the market index for a given country. Although this investor could
not directly liquidate her stock holdings via exchange trades during times of market closure, she could
sell her shares in the hypothetical fund. The fund’s managers, in turn, could either rely on black market
data for valuation purposes or produce an estimate of the historical event’s impact on asset prices at the
beginning of the closure period. Based on this perspective, we apply one of two approaches to handling
multi-month returns:
1. For events during which GFD provides black market prices, we use these values to estimate stock
market index returns.
2. For events without corresponding data in GFD, we assign the total multi-month real return to the
first monthly observation and zero real return to the remaining monthly observations.
The three exceptions to this general approach correspond to Austria’s 113-month return from July 1939
to November 1948, Switzerland’s 24-month return from August 1914 to July 1916, and Czechoslovakia’s
26-month return from April 1943 to May 1945. For Austria, GFD reports limited black market data in
January 1943, April 1946, and from November 1946 to November 1948. We use these intermittent
values and assign the remaining part of the total real return to July 1939. Similarly for Switzerland, we
use GFD’s black market data in January 1916 and July 1916 and assign the remaining part of the total
real return to August 1914. For Czechoslovakia, the April 1943 to May 1945 period corresponds to an
episode that starts with severe trading restrictions and price controls and ends with the permanent stock
exchange closure in Prague on May 5, 1945. For this period, we assign a terminal nominal return of
−90.00% to May 1945 and zero nominal returns to the other months. This treatment of Czechoslovakia’s
multi-month return is consistent with the economic experience of investors over this period, as detailed
in Anarkulova, Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2022).

3

A.3

International stocks

We calculate real returns on a portfolio of international stocks from the perspective of an investor in
a developed country. For each country, the international stock portfolio is a weighted investment across
all developed stock markets excluding the local stock market. The international stock portfolio is value
weighted by total market capitalization, and the returns are expressed in the domestic currency such
that they reflect the exchange rate risk incurred by investing in assets denominated in foreign currencies.
The return calculation for international stocks uses the gross nominal stock market returns described
in Section A.2. We convert the nominal return for each country j ̸= i into a real return denominated in
the domestic currency of country i and calculate the weighted average across countries j ̸= i,
stocks
RInternational
=
i,t

X

w j,t−1

stocks
RNominal
j,t

Πi,t

j̸=i



i, j

Et

i, j


,

(A5)

E t−1

i, j

where E t is the exchange rate at the end of month t expressed in country i’s currency per country j’s
currency, w j,t−1 is country j’s weight in the international stock portfolio in month t,
w j,t−1 = P

M j,t−1
j̸=i M j,t−1

,

(A6)

and M j,t−1 is the total market capitalization for the stock market in country j at the end of month t − 1
expressed in USD.

A.4

Bonds

We calculate bond returns using monthly data on bond yields. For comparability across countries
and periods, we focus on ten-year government bonds. The GFDatabase has variables for ten-year bond
yields for most countries and periods in our sample, and we supplement these data to achieve full data
coverage.
We first estimate ten-year bond prices given bond yields. We assume that each bond has exactly ten
years to maturity, semiannual coupons, and a coupon rate equal to the greater of the bond yield and
zero at the end of month t − 1. We then reprice the bond at the end of month t given the month-t yield
and the one month shorter maturity. We calculate the gross nominal return,
bonds
RNominal
=
i,t

Pi,t
Pi,t−1

,

(A7)

where Pi,t is the calculated dirty bond price (i.e., inclusive of accrued interest) for country i at the end
of month t. Finally, we calculate the gross real bond return,
RBonds
=
i,t

bonds
RNominal
i,t

Πi,t

.

(A8)

The return calculation requires assumptions about the maturity and the coupon rate of the underlying
bond. We validate this calculation in Section A.7 by comparing our calculated returns with returns from
Datastream over the period of overlap between the two data samples. Our return calculations are highly
correlated with and have similar moments to those from Datastream.
Sections A.4.1 to A.4.7 describe several issues related to the underlying bond yield data.

4

A.4.1

Bond data availability

For several countries in our sample, there are no ten-year government bonds in circulation at the
time the country is initially classified as developed. For example, ten-year government bonds are first
issued in Iceland in 1992, Singapore in 1998, Hungary in 1999, Poland in 1999, the Czech Republic
in 2000, South Korea in 2000 [Kang, Kim, and Rhee (2005)], Mexico in 2001 [Jeanneau and Verdia
(2005)], and Türkiye in 2010.34 These circumstances create gaps between the development dates and
the sample eligibility dates for these countries.
Estonia issued its only domestic bond in 1993, and all tranches were redeemed by 2004.35 As a
result, Estonia is excluded from our sample because the country has no domestic bond data for the
developed period.
A.4.2

Data gaps and errors

Table A.IV shows periods over which we are missing monthly bond yields. In these cases, we use
a smoothing procedure to fill gaps in the monthly bond return series. The procedure uses the countrylevel yield data from before and after the missing observations to produce a series of constant monthly
returns across a given period.
Because there are no data from GFD or alternative sources, we use the last non-missing yield of
4.33% in June 1944 to fill the data gap in bond yield data for Czechoslovakia from July 1944 to May
1945.
We adjust an apparent error in the GFD bond yield data for Switzerland. The source for the GFD data
is the Swiss National Bank. In comparing the GFD data to the Swiss National Bank data, however, the
yields match only through December 1941. The Swiss National Bank reports yields of 3.11% in January
1942, 3.14% in February 1942, 3.12% in March 1942, and 3.08% in April 1942. GFD reports yields
of 3.14%, 3.12%, and 3.07% for January through March 1942. From April 1942 to December 1990,
the GFD data lead the Swiss National Bank data by one month. We adjust the GFD data by entering a
3.11% yield for January 1942 and shifting the original GFD data from January 1942 to November 1990
so that it covers February 1942 to December 1990.
A.4.3

Merging multiple sources

As shown in Table A.II, constructing a series of bond returns for a given country often requires us to
combine yield data from multiple sources. We make additional adjustments in linking the data series
for several sample countries. The GFD data for Chile end in March 2015, and we use data from Federal
Reserve Economic Data (FRED) from April 2015 to December 2023. GFD reports a yield of 2.23%
for March 2015, whereas the yields from FRED are 4.34% for March 2015 and 4.49% for April 2015.
Merging these data series without adjustment would result in a return calculation of −17.76% for April
2015. This return likely provides a poor characterization of investment outcomes, given the relative
stability in yields in the FRED data. To address this issue, we use March 2015 and April 2015 yields
from FRED to compute the April 2015 bond return. We make an analogous adjustment for Iceland
34
See http://www.lanamal.is/asset/12732/special-report-markadsvidskipti_agust-2019.pdf for Iceland,
https://eservices.mas.gov.sg/statistics/fdanet/BenchmarkPricesAndYields.aspx for Singapore,
https://stats.oecd.org/OECDStat_Metadata/ShowMetadata.ashx?Dataset=GOV_DEBT&Coords=%5BCOU%5D.
%5BHUN%5D&ShowOnWeb=true&Lang=en for Hungary, https://www.gov.pl/web/finance/transaction-database
for Poland, https://www.cnb.cz/en/financial-markets/treasury-securities-market/government-bonds/ for the
Czech Republic, and https://www.tcmb.gov.tr/wps/wcm/connect/EN/TCMB+EN/Main+Menu/Statistics/Markets+
Data/Treasury+Auction/ for Türkiye.
35
See
https://www.rahandusministeerium.ee/en/objectivesactivities/state-treasury/financialreserves-and-liabilities/debt-management.

5

in March 2004, as well as for Lithuania, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, and Türkiye in the
corresponding months of 2023 when we merge data from GFD and FRED.
A.4.4

Alternative bond return calculations

Our primary bond return calculations use yield data with an assumption that the coupon rate is
equal to the bond yield for a hypothetical new ten-year bond. In the cases described below, we use
an alternative approach of separately measuring the capital gain and the coupon income due to data
availability. We use data on current yields and coupon rates from the Central Bank of Argentina to infer
bond prices for each month end from January 1947 to December 1966. We compute the capital gain
based on the change in bond price and add one month of coupon income based on the 3% coupon
rate from February 1947 to July 1960 and the 8% coupon rate from August 1960 to December 1966.
We use London quotes from the International Center for Finance at Yale for Chile (December 1926 to
September 1929) and Czechoslovakia (April 1922 to January 1927). We compute monthly bond returns
based on price changes and monthly coupon income at the coupon rate of 4.5% for Chile and 8.0% for
Czechoslovakia. Similarly, we compute monthly bond returns based on price changes and monthly
coupon income at the coupon rate of 4% for Chile from April 1965 to December 1970. We use bond
price data from the Central Bank of Chile over this period.
A.4.5

Bond conversion in Argentina

Argentina issued a 3% bond in 1955. In August 1960, the government allowed for a voluntary
conversion of these old bonds to new 8% bonds. The conversion was favorable for bondholders, as
they could receive bonds with higher interest payments. According to Duggan (1963), the 3% bonds
were exchanged at 79 pesos for the nominal value of 100 pesos. Because the terms of the conversion
were favorable, the majority of existing bondholders took the offer. In constructing our bond series for
Argentina, we assume conversion at the 79:100 rate. We compute the price change and multiply by
0.79 to reflect the conversion when computing the capital gain for August 1960, and we add one month
of coupon income at the 8% coupon rate to calculate the return.
A.4.6

Bond default in Greece

The bond return calculation must be adjusted in the event of a default or bond exchange that produces a change in par value. Defaults on domestic sovereign bonds are rare relative to external defaults,
particularly for developed countries [Reinhart and Rogoff (2011)]. Rather, inflation is a more commonly
used tool for eroding the real value of debt.
A notable event that produced a change in par value is the Greek default in 2012. Greece undertook
a debt exchange in March 2012 in which creditors exchanged their existing bonds for a package of new
government securities with a lower face value. Zettelmeyer, Trebesch, and Gulati (2013) provide an
issue-by-issue estimate of the haircut for existing bondholders. We use the 53.8% haircut estimate for
the bond with maturity closest to ten years. The ten-year bond yield declined substantially from 36.6%
to 21.0% in March 2012, such that our calculation based on bond yields produces a nominal net return of
67.1%. Our calculation of the nominal gross return that incorporates the haircut is 1.671×(1−0.538) =
0.772 to produce a nominal net return of −22.8% for ten-year bonds in March 2012.
A.4.7

Germany in 1919 to 1924 and 1948

To maintain consistency with our treatment of stock returns in Germany in the inflationary period
from 1917 to 1923, we also compute bond returns in gold marks. We use bond prices in paper marks
6

from Fischer (1923, 1924, 1925) and convert paper mark prices to gold marks by using the USD
exchange rate because the United States was on the gold standard during that period. The change
in gold mark bond prices provides an estimate of the capital appreciation of the bonds. We compute the
total bond return by including interest payments based on the 3% coupon rate of the bonds. We use
this approach from February 1919 to January 1924.
Germany exchanged Reichsmarks for Deutschemarks in June 1948. For government bonds, the
exchange was 10:1 [Schnabl (2019)]. To reflect the economic value of the currency exchange, we
adjust the bond price at the end of June 1948 by dividing the price of the bond by ten. The resulting
nominal bond return in June 1948 is −90.0%.

A.5

Bills

We estimate returns on bills using short-term yields and rates. For most countries and periods, the
GFDatabase has coverage with yield data on short-term (typically three-month) government bills. When
these data are missing, we next use central bank rates when available and then interbank rates from
the GFDatabase. We supplement these data with hand-collected, short-term rates from original source
documents to achieve full coverage. We convert annual nominal rates on bills into monthly nominal
bills
returns denoted by RNominal
and then calculate real returns,
i,t
RBills
i,t =

bills
RNominal
i,t

Πi,t

.

(A9)

We compute monthly nominal bill returns from annual yields or rates as
rate 1/12
bills
)
,
= (1 + RAnnual
RNominal
i,t−1
i,t

(A10)

rate
where RAnnual
is the annualized short-term government bill yield, central bank rate, or interbank rate
i,t−1
reported at the end of month t − 1.

A.5.1

Data issues related to bills

We have a few periods over which there are no bill data from GFD or alternative sources, and we are
required to make assumptions to fill these gaps in the data. For Canada, we use a yield of 5.75% for the
seven-month period from January 1914 to July 1914. This value is an average of the 6.50% interbank
rate for December 1913 from GFD and the 5.00% advance rate for August 1914 from Shearer and Clark
(1984). The Netherlands is missing data for February 2014, so we average the short-term government
bill yields from GFD of 0.09% for January 2014 and 0.13% for March 2014.
For New Zealand from January 1896 to December 1914, we use short-term yields on bills held by the
Post Office Savings Bank Fund. The Post Office Savings Bank Fund did not hold Treasury bills in 1913,
so we are missing data for that year. The yields are 3.00% in December 1912 and 4.00% in January
1914, and we use the average of 3.50% to fill in the data gap. We are also missing yield data for New
Zealand from January 1915 to December 1919. The yields for December 1914 and January 1920 are
both 4.00%, so we assume a 4.00% yield over the adjoining period with missing data.

A.6

Other variables

We follow the data adjustments noted in Anarkulova, Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2022) and the
corresponding internet appendix to estimate country-level inflation and exchange rate changes.

7

The data for market capitalization are from GFD. These series are typically reported at an annual
frequency. There are missing data for some country-year observations of these series. For market capitalization, which is reported in USD, we fill data gaps by interpolating changes in proportion to USD
nominal stock index returns. We use market capitalization series for Germany from 1917 to 1923 that
are denominated in gold marks rather than paper marks. This approach is consistent with the calculation of the total return index for domestic stocks for Germany over this period. We fill a data gap in the
2023 GFD market capitalization data for the UK using an alternative source.36
Table A.V shows dividend-price ratio data for each country in the sample. We use annual dividendprice ratio data. We rely on external sources to calculate dividend-price ratios for Slovakia and Latvia.
In both cases, GFD lacks comprehensive information to compute these ratios. For Slovakia, we use
dividend-price ratio data from the Bratislava Stock Exchange’s official website.37 For Latvia, we calculate
dividend-price ratios using data on total dividends paid by companies from Nasdaq Baltic and data on
total market capitalization from GFD.38 We use dividend-price ratios from Jordà, Knoll, Kuvshinov,
Schularick, and Taylor (2019) for Portugal from 1934 to 1987.
We follow Anarkulova, Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2022) to fill the data gaps in GFD dividendprice ratio data for Chile from January 1967 to December 1970 and Czechoslovakia from April 1938 to
March 1943. For Chile, we fill the data gap with a 7.0% yield based on the dividend yield observation in
December 1966. The dividend yield in Czechoslovakia fluctuates between 1.4% and 2.6% in the three
years before the break in the data, so we assume a 2.0% dividend yield for the missing observations.
Table A.VI shows additional periods over which annual dividend-price ratio data are missing in the
GFDatabase. We estimate dividend-price ratios for these periods with missing data using the methods
described in the table.

A.7

External validation tests

This section details the external validation tests for our stock and bond return data.
A.7.1

Comparison of stock data from GFD and Jordà et al. (2019)

Anarkulova, Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2022) compare their data on stock returns from GFD with
the stock returns from the overlapping periods in Jordà, Knoll, Kuvshinov, Schularick, and Taylor (2019).
They find that the country-level samples from these two sources have very similar average returns,
standard deviations, and extreme returns. They also show that the return correlation across the two
sources exceeds 0.90 for nearly all countries. Given that our approach to constructing country-level
stock returns closely follows the approach in Anarkulova, Cederburg, and O’Doherty (2022), these tests
also provide external validation of our stock data.
A.7.2

Comparison of bond data from GFD and Datastream

As described in Section A.4, we calculate bond returns using bond yield data from GFD and other
sources. In this section, we perform an external validation exercise by comparing our bond returns with
those from Datastream over the periods and countries for which they are available. The analysis serves
both to ensure that our approach to converting bond yields to returns is empirically accurate and to
assess whether our bond return data and the bond return data from a popular alternative source exhibit
common characteristics.
36

The data are available at https://www.ceicdata.com/en/indicator/united-kingdom/market-capitalization.
See http://www.bsse.sk/%C5%A0tatistika/Mesa%C4%8Dn%C3%A1.aspx.
38
The dividend data for Latvia are available at https://nasdaqbaltic.com/statistics/en/statistics.
37

8

Table A.VII shows results from the external validation analysis. The table reports statistics for real
returns. Our sample overlaps with Datastream for 27 countries. Datastream data begin in 1989 for several countries and more recently for others. The table reports the sample size, the arithmetic and geometric means, standard deviation, and minimum and maximum returns for our data, the corresponding
statistics for Datastream data, and the correlation between our returns and those from Datastream.
Table A.VII indicates a close correspondence between our bond return data and those from Datastream. For nearly all countries, the means, standard deviations, and extreme returns are highly similar
across the two data sources. The return correlations are above 0.90 for 24 of the 27 countries. Only
Hungary, Mexico, and Singapore have correlations below 0.90. Of the 24 countries with high correlations, Greece is unique in Table A.VII as the only country with economically significant differences in
the remaining summary statistics. We proceed to discuss these four exceptions.
Hungary and Singapore appear to be the simplest cases. We examine bond yields and returns across
the two datasets. The GFDatabase and Datastream bond yields differ, sometimes substantially, for these
two countries. To reconcile the differences, we collect ten-year historical bond yield data from the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank (the central bank of Hungary) and the Monetary Authority of Singapore.39 For
Hungary, the correlation in yield changes from the central bank data and our data is near one, whereas
the correlation between yield changes from the central bank and Datastream is much lower. For Singapore, the GFDatabase and Singaporean government data exactly match. The large deviations between
Datastream and these other sources primarily occur in the first seven months of the sample, and the
reported returns in Datastream imply changes in yields that are not reflected in the data from the Monetary Authority. Excluding the first seven months, the correlation between returns in our data and
Datastream is 0.98. Our data appear reliable for these countries.
The bond yields for Mexico in our data and in Datastream are relatively similar. For several months
in the sample, the reported Datastream return seems inconsistent with the reported yield change. For
example, the reported yield increases by 0.08% in June 2015, but the reported return is 8.12%. We
compare our calculated returns and the reported Datastream returns with the returns on the S&P/BMV
Mexico Sovereign Bond Index in these months.40 The S&P/BMV index tracks bonds with several maturities, and its duration is low compared with the other two series. Nonetheless, the returns from this
index are much more consistent with our data versus Datastream. In June 2015, for example, the
S&P/BMV index reports a return of −0.15%, which is close to our return calculation of −0.10% but
far from the 8.12% reported return in Datastream. Given the consistency between the GFDatabase and
the S&P/BMV index, the deviations between our data and Datastream appear to be reporting errors for
returns in Datastream.
The largest deviations in bond returns for Greece are related to the Greek bond default in 2012.
As discussed in Section A.4.6, we calculate a bond return in March 2012 that accounts for the bond
exchange and the associated haircut. Our return calculation, which reflects information from tenyear bond yields and the default, is −22.80% in this month. This return differs substantially from the
−4.16% return reported by Datastream. Our study focuses on domestic debt, so we take the perspective
of a hypothetical domestic investor. Participation rates in the exchange were higher among domestic
investors compared with international investors [Zettelmeyer, Trebesch, and Gulati (2013)]. We do not
have information on Datastream’s return calculation for this month, but the difference could arise from
a different assumption about participation in the exchange. Late in 2012, Greece announced a voluntary
bond buyback to be executed in December 2012, and the buyback led to an increase in market prices
[Zettelmeyer, Trebesch, and Gulati (2013)]. We observe a 4.32% decrease in bond yield in December
39

See
https://www.mnb.hu/en/statistics/statistical-data-and-information/statistical-timeseries/xi-money-and-capital-markets
and
https://eservices.mas.gov.sg/statistics/fdanet/
BenchmarkPricesAndYields.aspx.
40
See https://www.spglobal.com/spdji/en/indices/fixed-income/sp-bmv-mexico-sovereign-bond-index/.

9

2012 and calculate a return of 26.12%. Datastream reports a 3.21% decrease in bond yield and reports
a return of 41.47%, such that the return is much larger than that implied by the yield change. Given
that the buyback occurred at prevailing market prices, our view is that any effect of the buyback should
be reflected in the change in yields. The return differences for these two months account for much of
the difference in average returns for Greece in Table A.VII.

10

11

Year

1841
1849
1856
1866
1875
1882
1890
1890
1890
1891
1895
1896
1901
1910
1920
1920
1920
1921
1930
1930
1931
1936
1947
1948
1948
1948

Country

United Kingdom
Netherlands
Belgium
France
Norway
Germany
Denmark
Switzerland
United States
Canada
Argentina
New Zealand
Australia
Sweden
Austria
Chile period I
Greece
Czechoslovakia
Japan
Portugal
Italy
Ireland
Singapore
Iceland
Luxembourg
Türkiye

Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
Agricultural labor share
OEEC membership
OEEC membership
OEEC membership

Reason for classification

Development details

1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1895
1896
1901
1910
1920
1920
1920
1921
1930
1930
1931
1936
1998
1992
1948
2010

Year
Sample for study starts in 1890
Sample for study starts in 1890
Sample for study starts in 1890
Sample for study starts in 1890
Sample for study starts in 1890
Sample for study starts in 1890
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
Long-term bonds first available in 1998
Long-term bonds first available in 1992
n/a
Long-term bonds first available in 2010

Reason for delayed sample eligibility

Sample eligibility details

1890:01
1914:01
1897:01
1890:01
1914:01
1890:01
1890:01
1914:01
1890:01
1891:01
1947:02
1896:01
1901:01
1910:01
1920:01
1927:01
1981:02
1922:05
1930:01
1934:01
1931:01
1936:01
1998:07
2002:01
1982:01
2010:02

Start date

100.0
82.1
94.8
100.0
82.1
100.0
100.0
82.1
100.0
100.0
27.7
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
86.3
41.3
94.5
100.0
95.7
100.0
100.0
100.0
68.8
55.3
100.0

Coverage (%)

(Continued on next page)

2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
1966:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
1970:12
2023:12
1945:05
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12

End date

Sample coverage

Table A.I: Developed country sample periods
The table shows developed countries, initial development dates, classification reasons for development, sample eligibility details, and sample coverage. The
development year classifications are based on agricultural labor share or organizational membership in the Organisation for European Economic Co-operation
(OEEC) or the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Sample eligibility for a given developed country requires that the country
has issued long-term government bonds. The sample period start date is the later of the sample eligibility date and the first date with return data for stocks,
bonds, and bills.

12

Year

1959
1969
1994
1995
1996
1996
1996
2000
2010
2010
2010
2010
2016
2018
2020

Country

Spain
Finland
Mexico
Czech Republic
Hungary
Poland
South Korea
Slovakia
Chile period II
Estonia
Israel
Slovenia
Latvia
Lithuania
Colombia

OEEC membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership
OECD membership

Reason for classification

Development details

1959
1969
2001
2000
1999
1999
2000
2000
2010
—
2010
2010
2016
2018
2020

Year
n/a
n/a
Long-term bonds first available in 2001
Long-term bonds first available in 2000
Long-term bonds first available in 1999
Long-term bonds first available in 1999
Long-term bonds first available in 2000
n/a
n/a
No qualifying long-term bonds
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

Reason for delayed sample eligibility

Sample eligibility details

Table A.I (Continued)

1959:01
1969:01
2001:08
2000:05
1999:02
1999:06
2000:11
2000:01
2010:01
—
2010:01
2010:01
2016:01
2018:01
2020:01

Start date

2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
—
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12

End date

100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
—
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

Coverage (%)

Sample coverage

13

_IGPAD, SYCHLYM

_IPSAD

Chile period I

Chile period II

Start

End

1891:01 2023:12

1897:01 2023:12

1920:01 2023:12

TRI
TRI

TRI

2020:01 2023:12
2000:05 2023:12

2010:01 2023:12

PI/DP 1927:01 1970:12

TRI

TRI

TRI

PI/DP 1947:02 1966:12
TRI
1901:01 2023:12

Type

Czechoslovakia CZINDXM, SYCZEYM PI/DP 1922:05 1937:11
CZINDEXM, SYCZEYM PI/DP 1937:12 1943:03

Colombia
TRCOLSTM
Czech Republic _PXTRD

_TRGSPTSE

Canada

_ATXTRD

Austria

_BCSHD

_IBGD, SYARGYM
_AORDAD

Argentina
Australia

Belgium

Series

Country

Stocks
Start

End

1897:01 2023:12

➍
➎

➍
➎
IGCHLCM
➏
IGCHLIM
➐
IGCOL10D
IGCZE10D

1929:09
1930:12
1956:02
1970:12
2015:03
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
1922:05 1927:01
1927:02 1944:06

1927:01
1929:10
1931:01
1956:03
2010:01
2015:04
2020:01
2000:05

IGCAN10D 1891:01 2023:12

IGBEL10D

IGAUT10D 1920:01 2023:12

➌
1947:02 1966:12
IGAUS10D 1901:01 2023:12

Series

Bonds

ITCHL3D
IDCHLD
ITCOL3W
ITCZE3D
IDCZED
IDCZED

IDARGD
➋
IDAUSD
ITAUS3D
IDAUTD
ITAUT3M
IGAUT1D
IDBELD
ITBEL3D
✚
IMCANMOM
✲
ITCAN3D
IDCHLD

Series

2010:01
2012:10
2020:01
2000:05
2017:03
1922:05

1947:02
1901:01
1920:07
1928:07
1920:01
1960:01
1991:01
1897:01
1948:01
1891:01
1902:01
1914:08
1934:03
1927:01

Start

2012:09
2023:12
2023:12
2017:02
2023:12
1945:05

1966:12
1920:06
1928:06
2023:12
1959:12
1990:12
2023:12
1947:12
2023:12
1901:12
1913:12
1934:02
2023:12
1970:12

End

(Continued on next page)

TBY
CBR
TBY
TBY
CBR
CBR

CBR
TBY
CBR
TBY
CBR
TBY
GBY-1
CBR
TBY
DIR
OIR
IRA
TBY
CBR

Type

Bills

Table A.II: Data sources
The table summarizes the data series used to compute returns for each developed country in the sample. For each country and asset class, the table reports the
data series used to construct returns and the corresponding start and end dates. The data series symbols correspond to those in the GFDatabase from Global
Financial Data. For stocks and bills, the table also indicates the data series type. Stock returns are based on either total return indexes (TRI) or combinations
of price indexes and dividend-price ratios (PI/DP). Bill returns are based on short-term Treasury yields (TBY), central bank interest rates (CBR), interbank
interest rates (IIR), one-year government bond yields (GBY-1), deposit interest rates (DIR), interest rates on advances (IRA), overnight interest rates (OIR),
or time money rates (TMR). All bond returns correspond to returns on ten-year government bonds. We provide details on alternative data sources in the
footnotes.

14

_OMXCGID

_OMXHGID

TRSBF250D

_CDAXD

_RETMD

_BUXD
_OMXIPID, SYISLYM
_OMXIGID
_IVRTD

TRISRSTM

_BCIPRD
_FTITLMS, SYITAYM
_TOPXDVD

_OMXRGID
_OMXVGID

_LUXXD, SYLUXYM
_LUXXRD
➊
_IRTD

Denmark

Finland

France

Germany

Greece

Hungary
Iceland

Israel

Italy

Japan

Latvia
Lithuania

Luxembourg

Mexico

Ireland

Series

Country

PI/DP
TRI
TRI
TRI

TRI
TRI

TRI
PI/DP
TRI

TRI

TRI
PI/DP
TRI
TRI

TRI

TRI

TRI

TRI

TRI

Type

Stocks

1982:01
1985:01
2016:12
2001:08

2016:01
2018:01

1931:01
2020:01
1930:01

2010:01

1999:02
2002:01
2002:07
1936:01

1981:02

1890:01

1890:01

1969:01

1890:01

Start

1984:12
2016:11
2023:12
2023:12

2023:12
2023:12

2019:12
2023:12
2023:12

2023:12

2023:12
2002:06
2023:12
2023:12

2023:12

2023:12

2023:12

2023:12

2023:12

End

IGMEX10D

➐
IGLTU10D
➐
IGLUX10D
➐

IGJPN10D

➐
IGISR10IM
IGITA10D

IGGRC10D
➐
IGGRC10D
IGHUN10D
➐
IGISL10D
IGIRL10D

IGDEU10D

IGFRA10D

IGFIN10D

IGDNK10D

Series

2001:08

2016:01
2018:01
2023:02
1982:01
2023:04

1930:01

2010:01
2015:01
1931:01

1981:02
2014:02
2014:03
1999:02
2002:01
2004:03
1936:01

1890:01

1890:01

1969:01

1890:01

Start

Bonds

Table A.II (Continued)

2023:12

2023:12
2023:01
2023:12
2023:03
2023:12

2023:12

2014:12
2023:12
2023:12

2014:01
2014:02
2023:12
2023:12
2004:02
2023:12
2023:12

2023:12

2023:12

2023:12

2023:12

End

ITMEX3D

IMLUXM
➐

IDITAD
ITITA3D
IDJPND
ITJPN3D
➐
➐

ITHUN3D
ITISL3D
IDISLD
IDIRLD
ITIRL3M
➐
ITISR3D

IDDNKD
ITDNK3D
IDFIND
IGFIN1D
ITFIN1D
IGFIN1D
IDFIND
IDFRAD
ITFRA3D
IDDEUD
ITDEU3D
ITGRC3D

Series

TBY

OIR
IIR

2001:08

1982:01
1999:01

1931:01
1940:01
1930:01
1960:01
2016:01
2018:01

1999:02
2002:01
2013:02
1936:01
1969:12
2009:01
2010:01

1890:01
1976:01
1969:01
1996:09
2012:02
2013:06
2014:08
1890:01
1931:01
1890:01
1953:01
1981:02

Start

2023:12

1998:12
2023:12

1939:12
2023:12
1959:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12

2023:12
2013:01
2023:12
1969:11
2008:12
2023:12
2023:12

1975:12
2023:12
1996:08
2012:01
2013:05
2014:07
2023:12
1930:12
2023:12
1952:12
2023:12
2023:12

End

(Continued on next page)

CBR
TBY
CBR
TBY
IIR
IIR

TBY
TBY
CBR
CBR
TBY
IIR
TBY

CBR
TBY
CBR
GBY-1
TBY
GBY-1
CBR
CBR
TBY
CBR
TBY
TBY

Type

Bills

15

_OMXSBGI

_SSHID

TRRBILED

Switzerland

Türkiye

_IBTAD, ➋
_BVLGD

Portugal

Sweden

_WIGD

Poland

_SBITOPD, SYSVNYM
TRKORSTM
_BCNPR30

_OSEAXD

Norway

Slovenia
South Korea
Spain

_NZGID

New Zealand

_TFTFSTD
_SAXD

_AAXGRD

Netherlands

Singapore
Slovakia

Series

Country

TRI

TRI

TRI

PI/DP
TRI
TRI

TRI
TRI

PI/DP
TRI

TRI

TRI

TRI

TRI

Type

Stocks

2010:02

1914:01

1910:01

2010:01
2000:11
1959:01

1998:07
2000:01

1934:01
1988:02

1999:06

1914:01

1896:01

1914:01

Start

2023:12

2023:12

2023:12

2023:12
2023:12
2023:12

2023:12
2023:12

1988:01
2023:12

2023:12

2023:12

2023:12

2023:12

End

IGSWE10D
➐
IGSWE10D
IGCHE10D
➑
IGCHE10D
IGTUR10D
➒

IGSGP10D
IGSVK10D
➐
➐
IGKOR10D
IGESP10D

IGPOL10D
➐
IGPRT10D
➋
IGPRT10D
➐

IGNOR10D

IGNLD10D
➋
IGNLD10D
IGNZL10D

Series

1910:01
2019:01
2019:02
1914:01
1942:01
1942:02
2010:02
2023:07

1998:07
2000:01
2023:04
2010:01
2000:11
1959:01

1999:06
2023:04
1934:01
1974:05
1976:01
2023:07

1914:01

1914:01
1944:09
1946:01
1896:01

Start

Bonds

Table A.II (Continued)

2018:12
2019:01
2023:12
1941:12
1942:01
2023:12
2023:06
2023:12

2023:12
2023:03
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12

2023:03
2023:12
1974:04
1975:12
2023:06
2023:12

2023:12

1944:08
1945:12
2023:12
2023:12

End

ITTUR3D
IGTUR1D
➓

IDCHED
ITCHE3D

IDPRTD
ITPRT6D
IDPRTD
➋
ITPRT6D
➐
ITSGP3D
IDSVKD
➐
ITSVN3M
IGKOR1D
IDESPD
ITESP12D
IDSWED
ITSWE3D

■
■
IDNZLD
ITNZL3D
IDNORD
ITNOR3D
ITPOL3D

IDNLDBD
ITNLD3D

Series

2010:02
2014:10
2023:04

1914:01
1980:01

1934:01
1989:01
1999:02
2002:01
2010:10
2022:10
1998:07
2000:01
2009:01
2010:01
2000:11
1959:01
1979:01
1910:01
1955:01

1896:01
1920:01
1923:01
1978:03
1914:01
1941:12
1999:06

1914:01
1941:01

Start

2014:09
2023:03
2023:12

1979:12
2023:12

1988:12
1999:01
2001:12
2010:09
2022:09
2023:12
2023:12
2008:12
2023:12
2023:12
2023:12
1978:12
2023:12
1954:12
2023:12

1919:12
1922:12
1978:02
2023:12
1941:11
2023:12
2023:12

1940:12
2023:12

End

(Continued on next page)

TBY
GBY-1
TBY

CBR
TBY

CBR
TBY
CBR
TBY
TBY
IIR
TBY
CBR
IIR
TBY
GBY-1
CBR
TBY
CBR
TBY

TBY
DIR
CBR
TBY
CBR
TBY
TBY

CBR
TBY

Type

Bills

16

_TFTASD

_SPXTRD

United Kingdom

United States

TRI

TRI

Type

1890:01

1890:01

Start

2023:12

2023:12

End

IGUSA10D

IGGBR10D

Series

1890:01

1890:01

Start

Bonds

2023:12

2023:12

End
IDGBRD
ITGBR3D
▲
IDUSAD
ITUSA3CMD

Series
CBR
TBY
TMR
CBR
TBY

Type

Start
1890:01
1900:01
1890:01
1914:11
1920:01

Bills

1899:12
2023:12
1914:10
1919:12
2023:12

End

Footnotes:
➊ Stock returns for Luxembourg for the period from 2016:12 to 2023:12 are from the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. See
https://www.bourse.lu/home.
➋ Dividend-price ratios, bond returns, and bill returns for several countries are from Jordà, Knoll, Kuvshinov, Schularick, and Taylor (2019).
➌ Bond returns for Argentina for the period from 1947:02 to 1966:12 are based on data from the Central Bank of Argentina. See
http://www.bcra.gov.ar/PublicacionesEstadisticas/Boletin_estadistico.asp.
➍ Bond returns for select periods in Chile and Czechoslovakia are based on London quotes from the International Center for Finance at Yale. See
https://som.yale.edu/faculty-research/our-centers-initiatives/international-center-finance/data/historical-financialresearch-data/london-stock-exchange.
➎ Bond returns for select periods in Chile and Czechoslovakia are based on London quotes from the League of Nations reports.
➏ Bond returns for Chile for the period from 1956:03 to 1970:12 are based on data from the Central Bank of Chile. See
https://repositoriodigital.bcentral.cl/xmlui/handle/20.500.12580/26/browse?type=dateissued.
➐ Bond and bill returns for several countries are based on data from Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED) at the Federal Reserve Bank of
St. Louis. See https://fred.stlouisfed.org/.
➑ The bond return in Switzerland for 1942:01 is based on data from the Swiss National Bank
(https://www.snb.ch/de/iabout/stat/statrep/statpubdis/id/statpub_histz_arch#t2). We also shift a portion of the series IGCHE10D
from GFD, which originally covers the period from 1942:01 to 1990:11, to cover the period from 1942:02 to 1990:12.
➒ Bond returns in Türkiye for the period from 2023:07 to 2023:12 are based on data from
http://www.worldgovernmentbonds.com/bond-historical-data/turkey/10-years/.
➓ Bill returns for Türkiye for the period from 2023:04 to 2023:12 are based on data from
https://www.worldgovernmentbonds.com/bond-historical-data/turkey/3-months/.
✚ Bill returns for Canada for the period from 1891:01 to 1901:12 are based on interest rates on deposits in government savings banks. See p. 363 of
https://www66.statcan.gc.ca/eng/1901-eng.htm.
✲ Bill returns for Canada for the period from 1914:08 to 1934:02 are based on data from Shearer and Clark (1984).
■ Bill returns for New Zealand for the period from 1896:01 to 1922:12 are based on data from the annual New Zealand Official Year-book. See, e.g.,
https://www3.stats.govt.nz/New_Zealand_Official_Yearbooks/1896/NZOYB_1896.html.
▲ Bill returns for the United States for the period from 1890:01 to 1914:10 are based on data from Macaulay (1938).

Series

Country

Stocks

Table A.II (Continued)

Table A.III: Multi-month stock returns
The table reports periods of multi-month stock returns associated with exchange closures and details our approach
to converting each return to a series of monthly returns. For each multi-month return observation, the table
reports the number of months, the start and end dates of the period, the nominal and real net stock market
returns earned over the period, and the adjustment method. For adjustment method 1, we use alternative data
sources from GFD (e.g., black market trading data) to fill in a complete series of monthly returns. For adjustment
method 2, we assign the full multi-month real return to the first month of the period and assign zero real returns
to the remaining months. The cases marked with a ✚ are discussed in Section A.2.1. Panels A and B show events
corresponding to World War I and World War II, respectively, Panel C shows periods with revolutions, Panel D
shows financial and banking crises, and Panel E shows labor strikes.

Country

Months

Start date

End date

Nominal
return (%)

Real
return (%)

Adjustment

−0.39
−55.91
−3.59
−0.27
−27.54
−38.87
−3.50
−4.36
−8.96
−18.71
−2.94
−3.11

Method 1
Method 2
Method 1
Method 1
Method 1
Method 1
Method 1
Method 2
Method 2
✚
Method 1
Method 1

5.64
−16.90
12.54
−17.08
16.91
12.32
−10.67
0.53
75.61
−91.10
−87.15
15.21
−33.15
−3.52
−5.11

Method 2
✚
Method 2
Method 2
Method 2
Method 2
Method 2
Method 1
Method 2
Method 2
Method 1
Method 2
Method 2
Method 1
Method 1

−88.59
−89.24

✚
Method 2

Panel A: World War I
Australia
Belgium
Canada
Denmark
France
Germany
Netherlands
Norway
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
United States

6
52
7
4
6
42
7
3
4
24
6
5

1914:08
1914:08
1914:08
1914:08
1914:08
1914:08
1914:08
1914:08
1914:08
1914:08
1914:08
1914:08

1915:01
1918:11
1915:02
1914:11
1915:01
1918:01
1915:02
1914:10
1914:11
1916:07
1915:01
1914:12

−0.45
25.12
1.38
0.72
−10.89
20.03
−1.23
−3.80
−5.91
0.17
0.11
−2.14

Panel B: World War II
Austria
Austria
Belgium
Belgium
Czechoslovakia
Czechoslovakia
Denmark
France
France
Germany
Japan
Netherlands
Netherlands
Norway
Switzerland

2
113
5
11
16
4
2
2
10
67
45
5
21
2
2

1938:04
1939:07
1940:06
1944:08
1938:10
1942:01
1940:05
1939:09
1940:06
1943:01
1945:09
1940:05
1944:09
1940:04
1940:06

1938:05
1948:11
1940:10
1945:06
1940:01
1942:04
1940:06
1939:10
1941:03
1948:07
1949:05
1940:09
1946:05
1940:05
1940:07

6.01
315.61
22.38
−0.29
32.23
20.66
−7.64
−2.96
94.57
−87.62
449.38
20.63
−14.33
−2.07
−3.57

Panel C: Revolution
Czechoslovakia
Portugal

26
35

1943:04
1974:05

1945:05
1977:03

−90.00
−80.40

(Continued on next page)

17

Table A.III (Continued)
Country

Months

Start date

End date

Nominal
return (%)

Real
return (%)

Adjustment

5.60
−23.01
1.78
−20.13

Method 2
Method 2
Method 2
Method 2

−8.76
10.69

Method 1
Method 1

Panel D: Financial or banking crisis
Austria
Germany
Germany
Greece

2
2
7
2

1931:10
1931:08
1931:10
2015:07

1931:11
1931:09
1932:04
2015:08

6.25
−24.58
−8.22
−21.53

Panel E: Labor strike
France
France

2
2

1974:04
1979:03

1974:05
1979:04

−6.17
12.79

Table A.IV: Bond return smoothing
The table summarizes periods over which we are missing bond yield data. In each case, we use the country-level
yield data from before and after the missing observations to produce a series of constant monthly returns across
the period noted in the table. For each period with missing bond data, the table reports the country, the number
of missing observations, and the start and end dates of the period.
Country

Months

Start date

End date

Argentina

4
11
11
11
11
11
11
24
1
1
1
1
3
15
1
8
25
44
2
3
11
7
11
1
5

1948:08
1949:01
1950:01
1951:01
1952:01
1953:01
1954:01
1955:01
1958:02
1958:08
1959:05
1959:08
1940:05
1938:10
1991:06
1931:08
1943:12
1989:01
1940:05
1944:09
1945:01
1974:05
1975:01
2014:02
1914:08

1948:11
1949:11
1950:11
1951:11
1952:11
1953:11
1954:11
1956:12
1958:02
1958:08
1959:05
1959:08
1940:07
1939:12
1991:06
1932:03
1945:12
1992:08
1940:06
1944:11
1945:11
1974:11
1975:11
2014:02
1914:12

Belgium
Czechoslovakia
Finland
Germany
Greece
Netherlands

Portugal

Switzerland

18

Table A.V: Dividend-price ratio data
The table shows dividend-price ratio data for each country in the sample. The data are annual, and the data series
symbols correspond to those in the GFDatabase from Global Financial Data. We provide details on alternative
sources in Section A.6.
Country

Series

Argentina
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Chile period I
Chile period II
Colombia
Czech Republic
Czechoslovakia
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Mexico
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
Portugal

SYARGYM
SYAUSYM
SYAUTYM
SYBELYM
SYCANYTM
SYCHLYM
SYCHLYM
SYCOLYM
SYCZEYM
SYCZEYM
SYDNKYM
SYFINYM
SYFRAYM
SYDEUYM
SYGRCYM
SYHUNYM
SYISLYM
SYIRLYM
SYISRYM
SYITAYM
SYJPNYM
See table caption
SYLTUYM
SYLUXYM
SYMEXYM
SYNLDYAM
SYNZLYM
SYNORYM
SYPOLYM
See table caption
SYPRTYM
SYSGPYM
See table caption
SYSVNYM
SYKORYM
SYESPYM
SYSWEYM
SYCHEYM
SYTURYM
_DFTASD
SYUSAYM

Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
South Korea
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Türkiye
United Kingdom
United States

19

Start year

End year

1947
1901
1920
1897
1891
1927
2010
2020
2000
1922
1890
1969
1890
1890
1981
1999
2002
1936
2010
1931
1930
2016
2018
1982
2001
1914
1896
1914
1999
1934
1988
1998
2000
2010
2000
1959
1910
1914
2010
1890
1890

1966
2023
2023
2023
2023
1970
2023
2023
2023
1945
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
1987
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023
2023

Table A.VI: Data gaps for dividend-price ratios
The table shows periods over which we are missing annual dividend-price ratio data. For each period, the table
reports the country, the number of missing annual observations, the start and end dates for the period, and the
method used to estimate the missing ratios. For estimation method 1, we infer annual dividend-price ratios using
total return index and price index data. For estimation method 2, we fill in missing dividend-price ratios using
the last non-missing dividend-price ratio. For estimation method 3, we use the next year’s dividend-price ratio.
Country

Years

Start year

End year

Method

Denmark
France
Germany
Iceland

31
1
7
1
17
1
4
1
29
1
1
4

1938
1940
1944
2001
2007
1945
1945
1981
1995
2014
2021
1914

1968
1940
1950
2001
2023
1945
1948
1981
2023
2014
2021
1917

Method 1
Method 2
Method 2
Method 3
Method 1
Method 1
Method 2
Method 3
Method 1
Method 1
Method 1
Method 2

Italy
Japan
Luxembourg
Mexico
Singapore
Switzerland

20

21

Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Czech Republic
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Mexico
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Singapore
South Korea
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
United States

Country
420
420
414
420
284
419
388
420
420
297
299
420
393
420
162
420
393
373
276
365
180
141
397
420
420
420
420

Months
0.39
0.21
0.27
0.33
0.11
0.31
0.34
0.31
0.23
0.33
0.23
0.34
0.42
0.19
0.13
0.22
0.38
0.29
0.32
0.40
−0.01
0.12
0.37
0.35
0.19
0.23
0.24

R̄ a (%)
0.36
0.19
0.25
0.31
0.08
0.29
0.32
0.29
0.21
0.14
0.17
0.30
0.38
0.18
0.09
0.20
0.36
0.27
0.28
0.35
−0.03
0.10
0.34
0.32
0.18
0.20
0.22

R̄ g (%)
2.19
1.85
1.94
2.02
2.45
2.11
2.16
1.92
1.86
5.95
3.49
2.62
2.51
1.45
2.60
1.93
2.10
1.96
2.85
3.18
1.89
1.84
2.48
2.30
1.65
2.27
2.23

SD (%)

Our data
Max (%)
6.80
5.99
7.47
6.47
9.62
6.40
8.59
5.86
5.31
26.45
12.42
15.45
10.26
5.30
5.76
6.71
7.28
6.01
12.51
14.98
4.94
6.05
9.47
6.77
5.88
8.23
11.71

Min (%)
−5.63
−7.31
−6.49
−6.33
−8.47
−7.05
−7.16
−7.15
−6.84
−30.84
−9.83
−14.79
−8.03
−7.76
−7.25
−8.54
−8.40
−6.24
−11.06
−13.23
−6.13
−4.75
−9.92
−7.82
−4.86
−10.62
−7.34
0.40
0.26
0.33
0.34
0.17
0.34
0.38
0.35
0.26
0.54
0.24
0.35
0.44
0.24
0.12
0.27
0.40
0.28
0.31
0.45
0.15
0.14
0.42
0.38
0.23
0.24
0.23

R̄ a (%)
0.38
0.25
0.31
0.32
0.15
0.32
0.36
0.34
0.24
0.28
0.18
0.32
0.41
0.23
0.09
0.25
0.38
0.27
0.27
0.40
0.13
0.12
0.40
0.36
0.21
0.22
0.20

R̄ g (%)
2.22
1.67
1.92
1.99
2.35
2.00
1.96
1.81
1.78
7.08
3.41
2.42
2.38
1.33
2.38
1.83
2.04
1.85
2.92
3.16
1.90
1.72
2.38
2.12
1.53
2.16
2.20

SD (%)

−6.75
−7.10
−7.48
−6.11
−8.49
−7.02
−7.55
−5.85
−6.93
−41.35
−16.31
−14.16
−11.27
−6.15
−7.18
−8.22
−7.11
−6.48
−11.71
−14.84
−4.66
−3.90
−9.76
−8.48
−4.43
−10.79
−6.24

Min (%)

Datastream

7.84
4.99
8.33
6.36
8.76
5.83
8.01
5.19
5.08
41.84
15.34
14.54
8.62
5.19
7.95
5.21
6.93
5.50
13.92
20.14
11.07
5.88
9.65
5.62
5.06
7.03
11.69

Max (%)

0.97
0.96
0.98
0.97
0.94
0.98
0.97
0.97
0.97
0.93
0.86
0.97
0.94
0.95
0.87
0.97
0.95
0.97
0.94
0.95
0.88
0.98
0.96
0.98
0.94
0.98
0.98

Corr

Table A.VII: External validation test results
The table reports summary statistics for monthly real net bond returns for each developed country with a return sample that overlaps with the sample from
Datastream. For each country, the table shows the number of sample months. The table also shows the following summary statistics for our sample and for
the Datastream sample: the arithmetic average return (R̄ a ), the geometric average return (R̄ g ), the standard deviation of return (SD), the minimum (Min)
and the maximum (Max) return, and the correlation between the return samples (Corr).

B

Social Security benefits calculations

We compute Social Security benefit payments using the formulas effective in 2022. Given that Social
Security formulas are inflation-indexed, our calculations use real 2022 USD. As such, the amount subject
to Social Security taxes for each year in the investor’s working life is the minimum of annual income
and $147,000, which is the maximum taxable earnings. The average indexed monthly earnings (AIME)
for each investor is the average of their highest 35 years of taxed earnings divided by 12. An investor
who retires at the normal retirement age of 67 has a personal Social Security benefit according to a
formula that sums 90% of AIME up to $1,024, 32% of AIME between $1,024 and $6,172, and 15%
of AIME in excess of $6,172. The retirement benefit reduces by (5/9)% per month of early retirement
up to 36 months and further reduces by (5/12)% per month of early retirement between ages 62 (the
earliest allowed retirement age) and 64 (normal retirement age minus 36 months). The retirement
benefit increases by (2/3)% per month of late retirement between ages 67 and 70 (the latest allowed
retirement age).
Spouses may be eligible for additional benefits under the Social Security system. Some investors
may optimally choose to take spousal and/or survivor benefits. When both members of the couple are
living, each spouse has the option to take half of their spouse’s personal retirement benefit as a spousal
benefit in lieu of taking their own retirement benefit. This option becomes useful if one of the two
household members earns substantially more than the other during their working years. The spousal
benefit is reduced by (25/36)% per month of early retirement up to 36 months and further reduced
by (5/12)% per month between ages 62 and 64. Upon the death of one spouse, the surviving spouse
qualifies for a survivor benefit. The potential survivor benefit is the personal benefit of the deceased
spouse if the surviving spouse is full retirement age. If not, the survivor benefit is reduced by up to
28.5% (if taken before age 60). The surviving spouse may take the larger of their personal retirement
benefit and their survivor benefit.
Finally, the SSA administers the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program, which provides payments to retirees (and certain other individuals) who have little income from other sources. SSI payments are reduced by earnings, and the maximum monthly benefit amounts in 2022 are $1,261 for
couples and $841 for singles. We impose minimum monthly consumption levels of $1,261 for couples
and $841 for singles to reflect SSI payments. This modeling choice reflects the social safety net and
avoids issues with computing utility when consumption levels are zero or low.

22

C

Supplemental results
This appendix contains supplemental empirical results.

C.1

Household longevity

Table C.I summarizes the distribution of age at death in years conditional on survival to age 25
based on the SSA data and our simulation procedure described in Section 4. The table reports the
mean, standard deviation, and distributional percentiles for age at death for the heterosexual couple,
the female, the male, the female couple, and the male couple. The statistics for the couples correspond
to the age of the last survivor from the couple at death. In the base case of a heterosexual couple,
the mean age of the last survivor at death is 87.6 years, and the median age is 88.9 years. There is
considerable uncertainty over longevity outcomes. The 5th percentile of age at death for the couple is
70.8 years, and the 95th percentile is 100.0 years. This uncertainty is an important feature to consider in
assessing the ability of investment strategies to fund consumption through retirement. The last column
of Table C.I reports the likelihood that a given investor type dies before reaching retirement age. There
is a 19.5% (11.9%) chance that the male (female) dies before age 65, and there is a 2.3% chance that
neither member of the heterosexual couple survives into the retirement period.

C.2

Conditional strategy performance

In Section 5.2.2, we show that the optimal age-based strategy outperforms the four benchmark
strategies in preserving capital during the retirement period (i.e., the optimal strategy leads to the
lowest probability of financial ruin under the 4% withdrawal rule). The outperformance of the optimal age-based strategy in capital preservation during retirement challenges the traditional view that
investors should increase their allocation to bonds as they age. In this section, we further characterize this result by examining ruin probabilities conditional on couple and market outcomes. Figure C.1
plots conditional ruin probabilities for three benchmark strategies and the optimal strategy (bills, with
their exceedingly high ruin probabilities, are omitted to enhance the readability of the figure). In each
panel, we divide the 1,000,000 simulation draws into quintiles based on an outcome and plot the ruin
probability within each quintile.
Panel A of Figure C.1 examines ruin probabilities in relation to couple longevity. Short-lived couples
are unlikely to exhaust their savings, and the ruin probabilities range from 0.2% (optimal strategy) to
3.3% (domestic stocks). Differences across strategies are the most stark for long-lived couples. The
optimal strategy produces a 14.9% probability of ruin, which is more than twice as high as the unconditional 6.7% probability. The other strategies fare much worse with high longevity, with ruin probabilities
of 29.4% for domestic stocks, 32.2% for the balanced portfolio, and 41.2% for the TDF. These results
emphasize that continuing to generate wealth throughout retirement is crucial when investors may have
a relatively long retirement period. The poor unconditional performance of the TDF, which invests little
in stocks during retirement, is partially attributable to its struggle to preserve capital for couples who
live long lives.
Panel B conditions on the cumulative real domestic stock return in retirement. In the worst quintile
of realized returns, the optimal age-based strategy has a ruin probability of 17.7%, which far exceeds the
unconditional probability. But the optimal strategy is still the safest when domestic stocks do poorly. The
domestic stock strategy is hardest hit, naturally, with a 52.4% probability of ruin. The balanced portfolio
and TDF also have high ruin probabilities of 45.9% and 39.6%. When real returns on domestic stocks
are poor over long investment periods, bonds and bills also tend to have poor real returns. Thus, the
QDIAs provide little shelter during the storm.

23

Panel C of Figure C.1 examines the role of inflation. If realized inflation during retirement is low, the
strategies perform relatively well with ruin probabilities ranging from 0.7% (optimal) to 6.0% (domestic
stocks). If high inflation hits, the optimal strategy has a ruin probability of 15.9% versus 38.9% for
domestic stocks, 51.1% for the balanced strategy, and 62.8% for the TDF. The low absolute correlation
between inflation and international stock returns over long horizons (as shown in Table I) implies that
international stocks provide crucial diversification benefits in inflationary periods.
The benefits of international diversification depend on the correlation between returns on domestic
stocks and international stocks. This correlation varies over time [e.g., Longin and Solnik (2001)], so the
value of international diversification could also vary. Panel D studies strategy performance conditional
on the realized correlation between domestic and international stocks during the couple’s retirement
period. The ruin probability of the optimal strategy is stable across the quintiles, ranging from 4.6%
to 7.7%. Other strategies actually have more dependence, with higher ruin probabilities when the
realized domestic-international correlation is low. The low correlations seem to be proxying for worse
economic times and wars when domestic markets do relatively poorly, and high correlations tend to
line up with better asset class returns. Whatever the underlying causes may be, the results in Panel D
assuage concerns that a high correlation between domestic and international stocks will invalidate the
optimal age-based strategy.

C.3

Comparison of age-based and fixed-weight strategies

In Section 5.4, we demonstrate that the optimal fixed-weight allocation policy with 33% allocated
to domestic stocks, 67% to international stocks, and 0% to bonds and bills provides nearly equivalent
utility to the optimal age-based allocation policy. Table C.II compares the optimal fixed-weight and agebased strategies based on three retirement savings outcomes: the distribution of wealth at retirement
(Panel A), the distribution of the income replacement rate (Panel B), and the distribution of wealth
at death (Panel C). Table C.III compares the two strategies based on the distribution of the maximum
drawdown during the working years (Panel A) and the distribution of the maximum drawdown during
the retirement years (Panel B).

C.4

Welfare losses from deviating from the optimal asset allocation

In Section 5.4, we show that an optimal fixed-weight allocation of 33% in domestic stocks, 67%
in international stocks, and 0% in bonds and bills achieves performance comparable with that of the
optimal age-based strategy. The optimal age-based and fixed-weight investment strategies both deliver
substantial welfare gains relative to the four benchmark strategies. We quantify below the welfare losses
incurred by deviating from the optimal fixed-weight allocation.
Figure C.2 explores deviations from the optimal fixed-weight strategy and the associated equivalent
savings rates. Panel A varies the allocation to domestic stocks between 0% and 100% within an all-equity
design (i.e., the weights in bonds and bills are 0% and the remainder of the portfolio not invested in
domestic stocks is allocated to international stocks). Expected utility as a function of the allocation to
domestic stocks is relatively flat around the optimal allocation, and all allocations ranging from 11%
domestic and 89% international to 55% domestic and 45% international have equivalent savings rates
below 10.50%.
Figure C.2 also presents analogous results for adding bonds (Panel B) or bills (Panel C). In these
analyses, the weight in bonds or bills ranges from 0% to 40% and the equity portion of the portfolio
is split with relative weights of 33% in domestic stocks and 67% in international stocks. Our investors
dislike even relatively small allocations to bonds. An allocation of 12% to bonds produces an 11.05%
equivalent savings rate, which implies that the couples feel they need to increase their savings rate by
24

more than 10% if they allocate 12% of their wealth to bonds. To achieve the same expected utility as
saving 10.00% with the all-equity strategy, the couples must save 20% more to invest 20% in bonds,
35% more to invest 30%, and 54% more to invest 40%. The equivalent savings rates are even higher
for allocations to bills in Panel C.

C.5

Endogenous retirement timing

In Section 5.4.2, we consider the optimal fixed-weight asset allocation policy for households under
endogenous retirement timing. Table C.IV reports the estimated optimal retirement ages as a function
of the household’s current earnings, current retirement wealth, and expected Social Security benefit.

C.6

Alternative samples

In Section 5.4.4, we consider the optimal fixed-weight asset allocation policy estimated from samples
restricted to countries with relatively large populations or large market capitalization-to-GDP ratios.
Table C.V reports the sample start dates for developed countries in each of these alternative samples.

C.7

Leverage

In Section 5.4.4, we estimate the optimal fixed asset class weights and leverage levels for households who are allowed to borrow at a low (0.37% per year), medium (1.40%), or high (6.50%) spread
above the local yield on short-term government bills. The results correspond to a household risk aversion parameter of γ = 3.84. Table C.VI reports the optimal asset allocation and leverage policies for
alternative risk aversion parameters between 0.5 and 10.0.

C.8

American exceptionalism

In Section 5.4.5, we examine the role of American exceptionalism beliefs on optimal portfolio choice.
Table C.VII reports the optimal allocation policy for investors under alternative subjective beliefs that
forward-looking returns should be drawn from a distribution estimated from historical US returns rather
than historical developed country returns.

25

26
Mean
87.6
81.9
77.2
89.3
85.5

Investor

Female and male
Single female
Single male
Both female
Both male

9.1
13.9
15.3
8.5
9.7

StDev

Moments

59.4
36.0
30.6
62.7
55.9

1%
70.8
54.2
46.1
74.0
67.2

5%
76.1
62.7
55.9
78.7
72.8

10%
83.0
75.5
68.9
84.9
80.6

25%
88.9
84.9
80.6
90.3
87.0

50%

93.8
91.5
88.3
94.9
92.1

75%

Percentiles

97.7
96.3
93.5
98.8
96.1

90%

100.0
98.9
96.2
101.1
98.4

95%

104.5
103.8
101.1
105.5
102.8

99%

0.023
0.119
0.195
0.014
0.038

E[1{Tmax ≤480} ]

Table C.I: Distribution of age at death
The table summarizes the distribution of age at death in years conditional on survival to age 25 based on the actuarial life tables from the SSA. For each
investor type (i.e., heterosexual couple, single female, single male, female couple, or male couple), the table reports the mean, standard deviation, and
distribution percentiles of the age at death. The statistics for the couples correspond to the age of the last survivor at death. The last column in the table
shows the likelihood of death prior to reaching retirement age at 65.

Table C.II: Retirement saving outcomes: Age-based and fixed-weight asset allocation policies
The table summarizes the distributions of real wealth at retirement (Panel A), the real income replacement rate
(Panel B), and real wealth at death (Panel C) across 1,000,000 bootstrap simulations for households adopting the
optimal age-based and optimal fixed-weight asset allocation strategies. For each asset allocation strategy, the table
reports the mean, standard deviation, and distribution percentiles of each measure of investment performance.
Real wealth at retirement and real wealth at death are reported in millions of 2022 USD.
Moments
Strategy

Mean

Percentiles

StDev

1%

5%

10%

25%

50%

75%

90%

95%

99%

0.74
0.74

1.27
1.27

2.11
2.11

2.91
2.91

5.90
5.94

1.05
1.05

1.39
1.39

1.92
1.91

2.44
2.43

4.54
4.56

0.96
1.03

2.38
2.59

5.43
5.99

9.17
10.18

27.20
30.54

Panel A: Wealth at retirement ($MM)
Optimal Age-Based
Optimal Fixed-Weight

1.06
1.07

1.40
1.43

0.00
0.00

0.13
0.13

0.22
0.22

0.41
0.41

Panel B: Income replacement rate
Optimal Age-Based
Optimal Fixed-Weight

1.24
1.24

1.55
1.56

0.00
0.00

0.59
0.59

0.68
0.68

0.83
0.83

Panel C: Wealth at death ($MM)
Optimal Age-Based
Optimal Fixed-Weight

2.66
2.94

9.96
11.25

0.00
0.00

0.00
0.00

0.07
0.07

0.35
0.37

Table C.III: Portfolio drawdowns: Age-based and fixed-weight asset allocation policies
The table summarizes the distributions of the maximum portfolio drawdown during the pre-retirement period
(Panel A) and the maximum portfolio drawdown during the post-retirement period (Panel B) across 1,000,000
bootstrap simulations for households adopting the optimal age-based and optimal fixed-weight asset allocation
strategies. For each asset allocation strategy and drawdown period, the table reports the mean, standard deviation, and distribution percentiles of the maximum portfolio drawdown.
Moments
Strategy

Mean

StDev

Percentiles
1%

5%

10%

25%

50%

75%

90%

95%

99%

0.56
0.56

0.61
0.61

0.69
0.68

0.77
0.76

0.91
0.91

0.51
0.52

0.58
0.59

0.65
0.66

0.73
0.74

0.88
0.88

Panel A: Working-period drawdown
Optimal Age-Based
Optimal Fixed-Weight

0.55
0.55

0.13
0.12

0.24
0.24

0.31
0.31

0.38
0.38

0.48
0.48

Panel B: Retirement-period drawdown
Optimal Age-Based
Optimal Fixed-Weight

0.47
0.48

0.17
0.17

0.00
0.00

0.18
0.19

27

0.24
0.25

0.36
0.38

Table C.IV: Optimal retirement ages
The table reports optimal retirement ages conditional on retirement balance level, income level, and Social Security level. At age 62, couples are divided into terciles in each of the three dimensions with independent sorts. The
table shows the optimal retirement age for each of the 27 resulting couple types.
Social Security level
Income level

Low Social Security

Mid Social Security

High Social Security

Panel A: Low retirement account balance
Low income
Mid income
High income

70
70
70

69
69
70

67
67
68

Panel B: Mid retirement account balance
Low income
Mid income
High income

69
69
69

66
67
68

63
65
67

Panel C: High retirement account balance
Low income
Mid income
High income

63
65
67

62
64
66

28

62
62
65

Table C.V: Country-level start dates for alternative samples.
The table shows the sample start dates for developed countries in the alternative samples with screens based on
population or equity market size.

Country
United Kingdom
Netherlands
Belgium
France
Norway
Germany
Denmark
Switzerland
United States
Canada
Argentina
New Zealand
Australia
Sweden
Austria
Chile period I
Greece
Czechoslovakia
Japan
Portugal
Italy
Ireland
Singapore
Iceland
Luxembourg
Türkiye
Spain
Finland
Mexico
Czech Republic
Hungary
Poland
South Korea
Slovakia
Chile period II
Estonia
Israel
Slovenia
Latvia
Lithuania
Colombia

Base sample

Country population ≥
0.5% × world population

Market-cap/GDP
ratio ≥ 0.5

1890:01
1914:01
1897:01
1890:01
1914:01
1890:01
1890:01
1914:01
1890:01
1891:01
1947:02
1896:01
1901:01
1910:01
1920:01
1927:01
1981:02
1922:05
1930:01
1934:01
1931:01
1936:01
1998:07
2002:01
1982:01
2010:02
1959:01
1969:01
2001:08
2000:05
1999:02
1999:06
2000:11
2000:01
2010:01
—
2010:01
2010:01
2016:01
2018:01
2020:01

1890:01
—
—
1890:01
—
1890:01
—
—
1890:01
1933:01
1947:02
—
—
—
—
—
—
1922:05
1930:01
—
1931:01
—
—
—
—
2010:02
1959:01
—
2001:08
—
—
1999:06
2000:11
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
2020:01

1890:01
1919:01
1897:01
1890:01
2006:01
1912:01
1890:01
1928:01
1928:01
1902:01
—
1900:01
1932:01
1911:01
1923:01
1927:01
1999:01
—
1938:01
1999:01
2000:01
1945:01
1998:07
2002:01
1985:01
—
1998:01
1998:01
—
—
—
—
2000:11
—
2010:01
—
2010:01
—
—
—
2020:01

29

Table C.VI: Optimal fixed-weight asset allocation policies with leverage
The table reports the investment positions in domestic stocks, international stocks, bonds, and bills and the level
of borrowing as a percentage of wealth for the optimal fixed-weight asset allocation policy under alternative risk
aversion parameters.
Optimal asset class weights
Risk aversion

Domestic
stocks

International
stocks

Bonds

Bills

Borrowing
(% of wealth)

Panel A: Borrowing spread of 6.50% (high)
γ = 0.5
γ = 1.0
γ = 2.0
γ = 5.0
γ = 7.5
γ = 10.0

32%
35%
35%
33%
33%
33%

68%
65%
65%
67%
67%
67%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

Panel B: Borrowing spread of 1.40% (medium)
γ = 0.5
γ = 1.0
γ = 2.0
γ = 5.0
γ = 7.5
γ = 10.0

30%
35%
36%
34%
34%
34%

70%
65%
64%
66%
66%
66%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

100%
100%
70%
50%
50%
55%

Panel C: Borrowing spread of 0.37% (low)
γ = 0.5
γ = 1.0
γ = 2.0
γ = 5.0
γ = 7.5
γ = 10.0

30%
34%
31%
28%
28%
28%

70%
66%
58%
56%
56%
57%

30

0%
0%
11%
16%
16%
15%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

Table C.VII: Optimal fixed-weight asset allocation policies under alternative subjective beliefs
The table reports the investment positions in domestic stocks, international stocks, bonds, and bills for the optimal
fixed-weight asset allocation policy under alternative subjective beliefs regarding the extent to which historical
US returns and historical developed country returns reflect the forward-looking return distribution.
Optimal asset class weights
Probability US is “special” (x%)

Domestic
stocks

International
stocks

Bonds

Bills

0% (Developed sample only)
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100% (US sample only)

33%
38%
43%
48%
54%
60%
68%
76%
85%
96%
100%

67%
62%
57%
52%
46%
40%
32%
24%
15%
4%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%

31

60%

(B) Domestic stock return

Domestic Stocks
Balanced
TDF
Optimal Age-Based

50%
40%

Probability of financial ruin

Probability of financial ruin

(A) Longevity

30%
20%
10%
0%

50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%

Low

2

3

4

High

Low

(C) Inflation

2

3

4

High

(D) Domestic-international stock correlation

60%

Probability of financial ruin

Probability of financial ruin

60%

50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%

60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%

Low

2

3

4

High

Low

2

3

4

High

Figure C.1. Conditional ruin probabilities. The figure shows the probability of financial ruin conditional on
quintile outcomes of household longevity (Panel A), realized returns for domestic stocks (Panel B), realized
inflation (Panel C), and realized correlation between real returns for domestic stocks and international stocks
(Panel D) across 1,000,000 bootstrap simulations for households adopting various asset allocation strategies.
The ruin probabilities in Panels B, C, and D condition on realizations during the retirement period.

32

(A) Alternative equity allocations

Equivalent savings rate

18%

Optimal fixed-weight asset allocation

16%
14%
12%
10%
0%

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

70%

80%

90%

100%

Allocation to domestic stocks
(B) Addition of bonds

18%

Equivalent savings rate

Equivalent savings rate

18%
16%
14%
12%
10%
0%

(C) Addition of bills

16%
14%
12%
10%

10%

20%

30%

40%

0%

Allocation to bonds

10%

20%

30%

40%

Allocation to bills

Figure C.2. Equivalent savings rates for deviations from the optimal fixed-weight portfolio. The figure
shows equivalent savings rates to quantify relative economic value in pairwise comparisons of the optimal
fixed-weight asset allocation strategy with alternative fixed-weight strategies. Each comparison is based on
expected household utility over retirement consumption and bequest across 1,000,000 bootstrap simulations.
In each plot, the base strategy corresponds to the optimal fixed-weight allocation of 33% in domestic stocks
and 67% in international stocks with a pre-retirement period savings rate of 10%. The alternative strategies in Panel A adopt fixed-weight allocations to domestic stocks and international stocks, but deviate from
the base strategy in weighting the two asset classes. The alternative strategies in Panel B (Panel C) adopt
the same relative allocation to domestic stocks and international stocks as does the base strategy, but these
strategies add a fixed allocation to bonds (bills). Each panel shows the household’s equivalent savings rate
for the indicated alternative strategy (i.e., the savings rate that equates the expected utility from retirement
consumption and bequest for the alternative and base strategies).

33

